---
referencia: Lc 17.37
alias:
  - Lc 17:37
  - Lk 17:37
  - Lk 17.37
  - Luc 17:37
  - Luc 17.37
  - Lucas 17:37
  - Lucas 17.37
  - Luk 17:37
  - Luk 17.37
  - Luke 17:37
  - Luke 17.37

livro: Lucas
sigla: Lc
indice_livro: 42
capitulo: 17
versiculo: 37
KJV: And they answered and said unto him, Where, Lord? And he said unto them, Wheresoever the body is, thither will the eagles be gathered together. 
BKJ: E, eles respondendo, disseram-lhe - Onde, Senhor? E ele lhes disse - Onde estiver o corpo, aí se ajuntarão as águias. 
testamento: Novo Testamento
canon_judaico: 
canon_cristao: Evangelhos
data_criacao: 2025-09-03
data_atualizacao: 
status: publicado
tags:
  - Bíblia
  - NovoTestamento
  - Evangelhos
  - Lucas

---


[[Bíblia]] ➜ [[Novo Testamento]] ➜  [[Evangelhos]] ➜ [[Lucas]] ➜ [[Lc 17]]
[[Lc 17.36|Voltar]] ❮ [[Lc 17.37]] ❯ [[Lc 18.1|Avançar]]

## 📜 **Texto do Versículo**

| Versão  | Texto                                                                                      |
| ------  | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| BKJ1611 | E, eles respondendo, disseram-lhe: Onde, Senhor? E ele lhes disse: Onde estiver o corpo, aí se ajuntarão as águias.  |
| KJV     | And they answered and said unto him, Where, Lord? And he said unto them, Wheresoever the body is, thither will the eagles be gathered together.  |

## 🔗 **Referências Cruzadas (NTSK)**

`Wheresoever. ƒ138C, Ge +22:14. Jb 39:29, 30. Is +✓66:24. Ezk 39:4, 5, 11, 12-18. Da +*9:26, 27. Jl 3:2, 9-16. Am 9:1-4. Zp +*3:8. Zc 13:8, 9. 14:2. Mt 24:28. Jn x11:48. Ro 2:8, 9, 16. 1 Th 2:16. Re *16:14-16. 19:17-21. the body. Ezk ✓39:11-15. Da ✓7:11. Mt +*∥24:28. Re 19:18. Whatever interpretation and application is made here of the term “body,” must consistently apply equally to the term “carcass” used in Mt +*∥24:28. To suggest the body is that of Christ, or believers, or the nation Israel, does not harmonize with Scripture. Rather, suggesting that “body” and “carcass” refer to the defeated armies gathered against Jerusalem at the end of the tribulation described in Ezk 39:17-21, seems to fit precisely, and is no doubt the event Christ is alluding to, reinforced by the mention of “eagles” directly in this connection, for the “feathered fowl” are invited to feast upon the carnage after that great battle (Ezk 39:17). To suggest that eagles here represent the Romans is not supported by the context, for the Romans are not otherwise alluded to in this passage, and the fall of Jerusalem in A.D. 70 is not the subject of this prophecy, for here these events take place at the second advent, when “the Son of man shall be revealed” (ver. 30). Neither is it necessary to regard the eagles as being angels, nor is it necessary to suggest that they are the saints (the position taken by Peters, Theocratic Kingdom, vol. 2, p. 320). They are literal eagles, birds of prey, gathered to feast literally upon the dead bodies left after the great battle of Ezk 39:4-6. Peters sees here the translation or rapture of the saints, which my notes (on ver. 34 and Mt 24:41) conclusively show to be a mistaken view. Peters further errs here when he takes the question “Where, Lord” to mean “i.e. when shall this be witnessed or made known” (vol. 2, p. 320, 321). But the question is not when, but where, and Peters’ next statement that “the evidence of such a removal will be openly shown when these very ones shall be gathered together at the overthrow of Antichrist” (p. 321), citing Zc 14, Re 19, Jl 3, in “his efforts to crush the Jews at Jerusalem,” in a “mighty confederation against the truth” (Peters, Theocratic Kingdom, vol. 2, p. 105), is correct in placing these events at Jerusalem, but incorrect in taking this to be the translation of the saints. “In comparing prophecy it is distinctly announced that he shall unite nations and armies into an expedition into Palestine and a siege against Jerusalem, Dan 11, last part and 12:1; Is 14:24-27; Jl 3; Zc 14; Re 14:20; Re 16:16; Ezk 38:8-19, and that he is to be destroyed by a revelation of Christ in Palestine, Ezk 38:21-23; 2 Th 2:8; Re 19:11-20, etc.” (Peters, vol. 2, p. 105). This passage therefore answers the question where, not when, for Christ already informed them as to when these events would take place (ver. 30, at his advent). The eagles are not the saints, and there is not a reference here to the rapture or translation of the saints, for the rapture or translation of the saints logically must be prior to Christ’s revelation in power and glory with his saints (Ps +*149:5-9. Zc +*14:5). the eagles. Dt ◐28:49. Jb *39:27-30. Pr 30:17. Is ◐+*40:31. Ezk ✓39:17-21. Ho ◐8:1. Hab 1:8. Mt +*∥24:28. Re ◐4:7. *19:17-21. be gathered together. 1 S ✓17:44, 46. Ezk ✓39:4, 17.`

[[Glossário do NTSK]]
