---
referencia: Lc 24.16
alias:
  - Lc 24:16
  - Lk 24:16
  - Lk 24.16
  - Luc 24:16
  - Luc 24.16
  - Lucas 24:16
  - Lucas 24.16
  - Luk 24:16
  - Luk 24.16
  - Luke 24:16
  - Luke 24.16

livro: Lucas
sigla: Lc
indice_livro: 42
capitulo: 24
versiculo: 16
KJV: But their eyes were holden that they should not know him. 
BKJ: Mas os seus olhos estavam impedidos, para que não o conhecessem. 
testamento: Novo Testamento
canon_judaico: 
canon_cristao: Evangelhos
data_criacao: 2025-09-03
data_atualizacao: 
status: publicado
tags:
  - Bíblia
  - NovoTestamento
  - Evangelhos
  - Lucas

---


[[Bíblia]] ➜ [[Novo Testamento]] ➜  [[Evangelhos]] ➜ [[Lucas]] ➜ [[Lc 24]]
[[Lc 24.15|Voltar]] ❮ [[Lc 24.16]] ❯ [[Lc 24.17|Avançar]]

## 📜 **Texto do Versículo**

| Versão  | Texto                                                                                      |
| ------  | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| BKJ1611 | Mas os seus olhos estavam impedidos, para que não o conhecessem.  |
| KJV     | But their eyes were holden that they should not know him.  |

## 🔗 **Referências Cruzadas (NTSK)**

`eyes were holden. ver. ◐+*31. Lk 9:45. 18:34. Ge +*3:7. +*19:11. 21:19. Nu 22:31. 2 K 6:18-20. 1 Ch 21:16. Mk 16:12. Jn *20:14. *21:4. Ac 26:18. that. Ge ◐+*27:16. should not. That Jesus was unrecognized is perfectly understandable. I myself did not recognize my own father when I went to the airport to pick him up, though I had seen him just days before, and had to have it announced over the public address system where I was waiting to meet him—and I had walked right by where he was seated, and did not see him, nor did he see me. I saw my next door neighbor several times in the grocery store just yesterday, and did not recognize her until she started to talk to my wife. We often fail to recognize what we do not expect to see. Furthermore, Jesus evidently was not of such a singular appearance as to be instantly recognizable, as Peter apparently was (Lk 22:56), for the chief priests and scribes required Judas to identify him in the crowd. Even before his resurrection Jesus was unrecognized, on occasion, for he apparently was able to lose himself in the crowd, and so escape threatened destruction. Isaiah distinctly predicts that his appearance would not be remarkable. Therefore, it is not necessary to assume, as some do, that Christ “materialized” and “dematerialized” his body in order to be seen by men, and assumed different forms to different people after the resurrection, as though he did not have his own permanent resurrected and glorified body. Luke reports Christ emphatically declaring, ver. 39, in language which could not be stronger, that He himself was there before them in his own physical body. Lk +*4:30. Is +*53:2. Mt 26:48. Mk *14:44. *16:12n. know. Gr. epiginosko, Mt +11:27.`

[[Glossário do NTSK]]
