---
referencia: 1Tm 4.1
alias:
  - 1Tm 4:1
  - 1 T 4:1
  - 1 T 4.1
  - 1 Ti 4:1
  - 1 Ti 4.1
  - 1 Tim 4:1
  - 1 Tim 4.1
  - 1 Timothy 4:1
  - 1 Timothy 4.1
  - 1 Timóteo 4:1
  - 1 Timóteo 4.1
  - 1Ti 4:1
  - 1Ti 4.1
  - 1Tim 4:1
  - 1Tim 4.1
  - 1Timothy 4:1
  - 1Timothy 4.1
  - 1Timóteo 4:1
  - 1Timóteo 4.1
  - 1o Tim 4:1
  - 1o Tim 4.1
  - 1o Timóteo 4:1
  - 1o Timóteo 4.1
  - 1st Tim 4:1
  - 1st Tim 4.1
  - 1st Timothy 4:1
  - 1st Timothy 4.1
  - First Tim 4:1
  - First Tim 4.1
  - First Timothy 4:1
  - First Timothy 4.1
  - I Ti 4:1
  - I Ti 4.1
  - I Tim 4:1
  - I Tim 4.1
  - I Timothy 4:1
  - I Timothy 4.1
  - I Timóteo 4:1
  - I Timóteo 4.1
  - Primeiro Tim 4:1
  - Primeiro Tim 4.1
  - Primeiro Timóteo 4:1
  - Primeiro Timóteo 4.1

livro: 1 Timóteo
sigla: 1Tm
indice_livro: 54
capitulo: 4
versiculo: 1
KJV: Now the Spirit speaketh expressly, that in the latter times some shall depart from the faith, giving heed to seducing spirits, and doctrines of devils; 
BKJ: Ora, o Espírito expressamente diz que, nos últimos tempos, alguns deixarão a fé, dando ouvidos a espíritos enganadores e a doutrinas de demônios, 
testamento: Novo Testamento
canon_judaico: 
canon_cristao: Epístolas Paulinas
data_criacao: 2025-09-03
data_atualizacao: 
status: publicado
tags:
  - Bíblia
  - NovoTestamento
  - EpístolasPaulinas
  - 1Timóteo

---


[[Bíblia]] ➜ [[Novo Testamento]] ➜  [[Epístolas Paulinas]] ➜ [[1 Timóteo]] ➜ [[1Tm 4]]
[[1Tm 3.16|Voltar]] ❮ [[1Tm 4.1]] ❯ [[1Tm 4.2|Avançar]]

## 📜 **Texto do Versículo**

| Versão  | Texto                                                                                      |
| ------  | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| BKJ1611 | Ora, o Espírito expressamente diz que, nos últimos tempos, alguns deixarão a fé, dando ouvidos a espíritos enganadores e a doutrinas de demônios,  |
| KJV     | Now the Spirit speaketh expressly, that in the latter times some shall depart from the faith, giving heed to seducing spirits, and doctrines of devils;  |

## 🔗 **Referências Cruzadas (NTSK)**

`the Spirit. Gr. pneuma, Mt +3:16. Jn +7:39. 14:17. *16:13. Ac 13:2. 28:25. 1 Co 12:11. 2 P *1:21. 1 J *2:18. Re 2:7, 11, 17, 29. 3:6, 13, 22. expressly. Ezk 1:3. the latter. Nu 24:14. Dt 4:30. 32:29. Is 2:2. Je 48:47. 49:39. Ezk 38:16. Da 10:14. Ho 3:5. Mi 4:1. 1 Co +*11:19. 2 Th ✓2:3-9. 2 Ti 3:1, etc. 1 P 1:20. 2 P +*2:1. *3:3. Ju 4, 18. some. ƒ175A, Ge +27:44. depart. Those who teach unconditional eternal security need to consider whether the direct statements of Scripture affirm apostasy is possible. One cannot logically be said to depart, fall away, or apostatize from a faith which one never held in the first place. Paul is addressing these warnings to believers, not unbelievers. One must not appeal to an isolated text such as Jn 10:28, and force it to teach unconditional security, when such a statement in its context is clearly said of those who Jesus declares “hear my voice” and “follow me” (Jn 10:27). A text like Jn 5:24 shows by the use of the present tenses in the Greek that the promise is to those who keep on hearing and believing (Jn 3:16n). In the context of Romans 8, the subject of apostasy is not in view. A text like Ro 8:30 is not addressing the unconditional security of the believer but the certainty of our glorification with Christ, despite how difficult our present circumstances might seem. In context (Ro 8:17) such confidence relates directly to our eternal inheritance with Christ as co-heirs in his earthly Messianic kingdom, an inheritance which is not rendered less certain because of present trials and tribulations, but more certain, for our reward and position is only increased by our perseverance (Mt +*5:11, 12). One does not apostatize every time a sin is committed. Moral apostasy consists of willfully persisting in known sin (1 Co +*6:9-11. He 10:26. 1 J 3:9). Although one is never said in Scripture to be saved over and over again, or to be born again more than once, this fact does not remove the validity of all the warnings to believers against both moral and doctrinal (1 Co +*15:2) apostasy. Certainly there would be no point in warning believers against what was impossible (1 Th 3:5n). While the Bible emphatically teaches the eternal security of the believer (Mt 24:13n), and makes the security of salvation in no sense dependent upon good works to stay saved, this security belongs to believers who continue to place their faith in Christ for salvation, not unconditionally to persons who by a single act of faith allegedly “received Christ” but have since departed from the faith doctrinally or morally. That eternal security is not unconditional is proved by (1) repeated warnings to believers against doctrinal and moral apostasy; (2) the presence of “if” clauses (2 P +*1:10); (3) Paul’s repeated concern that his labor not be in vain (1 Th 3:5n); (4) recorded instances of individuals who departed from true faith (He +*10:38); (5) that believing or saving faith is always represented in Greek as a continuing active faith, not a single or one time act of faith (Jn 3:16n). (6) Jesus said it is possible to stop believing (Lk +*8:13). To suggest, as many contemporary expositors do, that the warnings against apostasy in the book of Hebrews were addressed only to Jewish Christians who were in danger of forsaking Christianity and falling back into Judaism, and therefore cannot apply to believers today, is at best a shaky assumption, and at worst is taking away from the Word of God by wrongly rendering its warnings inapplicable to present day believers. As the warnings against apostasy are addressed with greater frequency to the Gentile Christians addressed in Paul’s epistles (1 Co +*15:2), such an argument has no force. To deny the force of the warning in Hebrews 6:4-6 by relegating the Apostle’s argument to a “reductio ad absurdum,” or reduction to an absurdity, is begging the question, as Spiros Zodhiates does in a footnote in his otherwise excellent work (The Hebrew-Greek Key Study Bible, pp. 1496, 1497). Few readers of that day or this would be in position to appreciate such a display of the niceties of rhetoric as the argument necessarily supposes was the author’s intention. Such interpreters, in their mistaken effort to support the theory of unconditional eternal security, ignore, suppress, or explain away all contrary evidence. Such a procedure is invalid because, by its practice, the interpreter makes it impossible for God to assert a contrary truth. No matter how God might choose to express such a truth, the interpreter intent on defending this mistaken theory would explain the language away. An example of a clever but mistaken attempt to escape the logical consequences of this passage (1 Ti 4:1) is the effort to redefine the Greek terms for apostasy used here and at 2 Th 2:3 to mean “stand aloof from,” making the reference to be to persons who were never believers, but simply those who associated with the Christians (Spiros Zodhiates, The Hebrew-Greek Key Study Bible, p. 1468, note on 2 Th 2:3). Zodhiates’ redefinition also involves him in the exegetical “word study” fallacy discussed by D. A. Carson as “The Root Fallacy” (Exegetical Fallacies, pp. 26-32). Such a redefinition is rendered necessary by the exigencies of the theory of unconditional eternal security, as Zodhiates’ ensuing arguments using Jn 10:28, Ro 8:38, 39, etc., show. This view is in error for the word “apostasy,” in Greek, apostasia, in its religious use necessarily includes a prior turning to God (Heinrich Schlier, TDNT, vol. 1, p. 513, note 4), a concept rendered certain here by the next words “from the faith.” Da 11:35. Mt 24:5-12. Lk +*8:13. 2 Th 2:3g. 2 Ti 3:1-5. 4:4. He +*3:12. Re *3:8. from the faith. ƒ121R2, Ac +6:7. ver. 6. 1 Ti +*1:19. seducing. ƒ168, Is +1:11. Ge 3:3-5, 13. 1 K 22:22, 23. 2 Ch 18:19-22. Mt +7:15. 2 Co ✓11:3, 13-15. 2 Th 2:9-12. 2 Ti 3:13. 2 P 2:1. 1 J 4:6g. Re 9:2-11. 13:14. 16:14. 18:2, 23. 19:20. 20:2, 3, 8, 10. spirits. Gr. pneuma, Mt +8:16. and doctrines. ver. +6. Da 11:35-38. 1 Co 8:5, 6. 10:20. Col 2:18. Ac 17:18. Ju *4. Re 9:20g.`

[[Glossário do NTSK]]
