---
referencia: Mt 16.28
alias:
  - Mt 16:28
  - Mat 16:28
  - Mat 16.28
  - Mateus 16:28
  - Mateus 16.28
  - Matt 16:28
  - Matt 16.28
  - Matthew 16:28
  - Matthew 16.28

livro: Mateus
sigla: Mt
indice_livro: 40
capitulo: 16
versiculo: 28
KJV: Verily I say unto you, There be some standing here, which shall not taste of death, till they see the Son of man coming in his kingdom. 
BKJ: Em verdade eu vos digo, alguns dos que aqui estão não provarão a morte até que vejam o Filho do homem vindo em seu reino. 
testamento: Novo Testamento
canon_judaico: 
canon_cristao: Evangelhos
data_criacao: 2025-09-03
data_atualizacao: 
status: publicado
tags:
  - Bíblia
  - NovoTestamento
  - Evangelhos
  - Mateus

---


[[Bíblia]] ➜ [[Novo Testamento]] ➜  [[Evangelhos]] ➜ [[Mateus]] ➜ [[Mt 16]]
[[Mt 16.27|Voltar]] ❮ [[Mt 16.28]] ❯ [[Mt 17.1|Avançar]]

## 📜 **Texto do Versículo**

| Versão  | Texto                                                                                      |
| ------  | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| BKJ1611 | Em verdade eu vos digo, alguns dos que aqui estão não provarão a morte até que vejam o Filho do homem vindo em seu reino.  |
| KJV     | Verily I say unto you, There be some standing here, which shall not taste of death, till they see the Son of man coming in his kingdom.  |

## 🔗 **Referências Cruzadas (NTSK)**

`There. Mk *9:1. Lk *9:27. not. ƒ158, Mt +5:18. taste. Lk 2:26. Jn *8:51, 52. He *2:9. till. Mt +*23:39. see. This appears to refer to the mediatorial kingdom which our Lord was about to set up, by the destruction of the Jewish nation and polity, and the diffusion of the gospel throughout the world. The preceding original Comprehensive Bible note reflects a mistaken prophetic position still held by some Amillenarian interpreters, answered directly by Peters (Theocratic Kingdom, vol. 2, Proposition 153, Observation 4, Note 4, p. 562), who states “who urge the destruction of Jerusalem (which John only survived) as the fulfillment (of Mt 16:27, 28). How this can be reconciled with a coming in glory, with a coming of the Son of Man (i.e. in His humanity), etc., we are not informed. More than this: this coming is specifically predicted, over against all such assertions, to be one, not for the destruction of Jerusalem but for its salvation, as e.g. Ps 102:16, “when the Lord shall build up Zion, He shall appear in His glory,” with which compare Micah 3:12 in connection with following chapter; Zc ch. 14; Am 9:11, etc.” In context, however, the experiences on the mount of transfiguration reported in chapter 17 may be the fulfillment of this prophecy. Peters also notes in connection with the transfiguration, that “the glorified condition of Christ, Moses, and Elias thus indicates … the futurity of the Kingdom.—a Kingdom not to be realized at the First Advent in humiliation, not during the absence of the Bridegroom, but at the Second Advent, when He and His saints come ‘in glory.’ ” The transfiguration furnished “an earnest, actual reception of glory,” and served as “a most direct proof that the covenant and prophets would yet be fulfilled.” The transfiguration reveals the relationships of those who will be with Christ in his future eternal earthly kingdom. Peter, James, and John, represent unglorified, mortal men living on the earth, who personally witness and rejoice in the manifested glory of the Messiah. Jesus is personally present in this kingdom in His state of glory, as are Moses and Elias, who also appeared “in glory.” Moses and Elias are purposely chosen as a correct exhibition of the two parties, forming one class, who shall appear in glory with Christ: (1) the dead saints, and (2) the living saints translated. Peters notes that the transfiguration “stands forth, pre-eminently, as a Divine confirmation of the Theocratic Kingship of Jesus, of the glory of His saints, and of the happiness of the nations who shall witness it—a fact so striking and corroborative of the ultimate Redemption of saints and of the race, that Peter seizes upon it as a grand proof that Jesus shall come unto so great Salvation” (Theocratic Kingdom, vol. 2, p. 561). Others see in this a reference to the experience of Pentecost of Acts ch. 2, for Christ promised “I will come to you” in the person of the Holy Spirit (Jn 14:18. Re 3:20). However, the parallel passages make it clear that this is a reference to the second advent of Christ, in full agreement with the position taken by Peters, noted above. Mt ✓10:23. 23:36. *24:3, 27-31, 34, 42, 44. *25:31. *26:64. Mk 1:15. *13:26, 30. Lk *18:8. *21:27, 28, 31, 32. Son of man. ƒ144A3, Ge +11:5. Mt 8:20. coming. Mt +*24:30. *26:64. Da 7:13, 14. Lk *23:42. 2 P ✓1:16-18. Re 1:7. in his kingdom. Mt 20:21. *25:31, +*34. Da 7:14. Mk 9:1. Lk 9:27. 23:42. Ac *1:3, 6n. Col *1:13n. 2 Ti +*4:1n. 2 P 1:11. 3:4, 13. Re *11:15.`

[[Glossário do NTSK]]
