---
referencia: Mt 12.31
alias:
  - Mt 12:31
  - Mat 12:31
  - Mat 12.31
  - Mateus 12:31
  - Mateus 12.31
  - Matt 12:31
  - Matt 12.31
  - Matthew 12:31
  - Matthew 12.31

livro: Mateus
sigla: Mt
indice_livro: 40
capitulo: 12
versiculo: 31
KJV: Wherefore I say unto you, All manner of sin and blasphemy shall be forgiven unto men - but the blasphemy against the Holy Ghost shall not be forgiven unto men. 
BKJ: Portanto, eu vos digo - Toda espécie de pecado e blasfêmia se perdoará aos homens; mas a blasfêmia contra o Espírito Santo não será perdoada aos homens. 
testamento: Novo Testamento
canon_judaico: 
canon_cristao: Evangelhos
data_criacao: 2025-09-03
data_atualizacao: 
status: publicado
tags:
  - Bíblia
  - NovoTestamento
  - Evangelhos
  - Mateus

---


[[Bíblia]] ➜ [[Novo Testamento]] ➜  [[Evangelhos]] ➜ [[Mateus]] ➜ [[Mt 12]]
[[Mt 12.30|Voltar]] ❮ [[Mt 12.31]] ❯ [[Mt 12.32|Avançar]]

## 📜 **Texto do Versículo**

| Versão  | Texto                                                                                      |
| ------  | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| BKJ1611 | Portanto, eu vos digo: Toda espécie de pecado e blasfêmia se perdoará aos homens; mas a blasfêmia contra o Espírito Santo não será perdoada aos homens.  |
| KJV     | Wherefore I say unto you, All manner of sin and blasphemy shall be forgiven unto men: but the blasphemy against the Holy Ghost shall not be forgiven unto men.  |

## 🔗 **Referências Cruzadas (NTSK)**

`All manner of sin. Is *1:18. ✓55:7. Ezk 33:11. Mk 3:28-30. Jn ✓6:37. Ac 13:38, 39. 1 Ti *1:13-15. He *6:4-6, etc. +*10:26, 29. 1 J ✓1:9. ✓2:1, 2. and blasphemy. Blasphemy, blasphemia, either from blaptein tain phaman, to hurt or blast the reputation, or from ballein tais phamais, to smite with words, or reports, when applied to men denotes injurious speaking, or calumny, and when used in reference to God signifies speaking impiously of his nature, attributes, and works. but the blasphemy. What the Holy Spirit did to prove the divinity of Christ’s person and mission, the Pharisees turned into an argument to show that Christ was an impostor, and actuated by Satanic agency. Thus their sin consisted in the unreasonable and absurd rejection of the Son of God as the Savior of men, in opposition to the plain and unanswerable testimony of the Holy Spirit. This sin against the Holy Spirit is a rejection of the truth as it is revealed in the Divine Word, especially of that truth as it respects Christ and His salvation—this in disregard of many favorable opportunities to know the truth as it is in Christ and His Word—with severe and bitter feelings of aversion and hatred, peculiarly provoked by any distinct reference to the Holy Spirit and His work in either the inspired Word, or the Divine Savior whom it His office to honor (James Morgan, The Scripture Testimony to the Holy Spirit, pp. 144, 147). Le 24:16. Mk 3:28-30. Lk 12:10. Ac *5:3. 7:51. 1 J +*5:16. shall be. ƒ96C9, Ge +2:10. Ghost. Gr. pneuma, Mt +3:16. shall not be forgiven. The sin against the Holy Ghost is unpardonable because of its own nature: it consists in the rejection of the way of salvation by Christ, in opposition to the fullest evidence, and the only evidence that shall ever be given (He 2:3). The sin against the Holy Spirit consists in continued impenitence and unbelief (He ✓10:26-29). It is not an act, but a habit. It is the calm, determined, and persevering rejection of Jesus Christ, as the Savior of men, in opposition to all the testimony of His word and Spirit. Consequently in its nature it is incapable of forgiveness. No one who is afraid of having committed this sin has done so; for its very nature is to have no fear on that account. It is committed and continued in delightedly and knowingly, where it is committed at all. Fear is incompatible with its nature. Yet we need to be on our guard against this sin, lest we be betrayed into it. The progress of sin is rapid and dangerous. We need to be watchful against both the sins of the life and the sins of the heart. Apostasy may be nearer to any of us than we imagine (Ro 11:20. He +*3:12. 1 J 3:24). Cherish a sense of dependence on both the teaching and support of the Spirit. Through Him cleave unto Christ and ye shall be safe (See Morgan, The Scripture Testimony to the Holy Spirit, pp. 148-151).`

[[Glossário do NTSK]]
