---
referencia: Mt 27.54
alias:
  - Mt 27:54
  - Mat 27:54
  - Mat 27.54
  - Mateus 27:54
  - Mateus 27.54
  - Matt 27:54
  - Matt 27.54
  - Matthew 27:54
  - Matthew 27.54

livro: Mateus
sigla: Mt
indice_livro: 40
capitulo: 27
versiculo: 54
KJV: Now when the centurion, and they that were with him, watching Jesus, saw the earthquake, and those things that were done, they feared greatly, saying, Truly this was the Son of God. 
BKJ: Ora, o centurião e os que com ele guardavam a Jesus, vendo o terremoto e as coisas que haviam sucedido, tiveram grande temor, e disseram - Verdadeiramente este era o Filho de Deus. 
testamento: Novo Testamento
canon_judaico: 
canon_cristao: Evangelhos
data_criacao: 2025-09-03
data_atualizacao: 
status: publicado
tags:
  - Bíblia
  - NovoTestamento
  - Evangelhos
  - Mateus

---


[[Bíblia]] ➜ [[Novo Testamento]] ➜  [[Evangelhos]] ➜ [[Mateus]] ➜ [[Mt 27]]
[[Mt 27.53|Voltar]] ❮ [[Mt 27.54]] ❯ [[Mt 27.55|Avançar]]

## 📜 **Texto do Versículo**

| Versão  | Texto                                                                                      |
| ------  | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| BKJ1611 | Ora, o centurião e os que com ele guardavam a Jesus, vendo o terremoto e as coisas que haviam sucedido, tiveram grande temor, e disseram: Verdadeiramente este era o Filho de Deus.  |
| KJV     | Now when the centurion, and they that were with him, watching Jesus, saw the earthquake, and those things that were done, they feared greatly, saying, Truly this was the Son of God.  |

## 🔗 **Referências Cruzadas (NTSK)**

`the centurion. ver. 36. Mt 8:5. Ac 10:1. 21:32. 23:17, 23. 27:1, 43. watching. ver. 36. saw. ver. 51. Mk 15:39. Lk 23:47, etc. feared. 2 K 1:13, 14. Ac *2:37. *16:29, 30. Re 11:13. Truly. ver. 40, 43. Mt 14:33. 26:63. Da 3:25. Lk 22:70. *23:47. Jn 19:7. Ro 1:4. the Son of God. Since they were Romans that said this, some think it evident that they meant to say that he was not only an innocent, but altogether a just man, as in Lk 23:47. But in fact that expression is explained by this; for, as Jesus was crucified by the Jews for saying that he was “the Son of God;” so if he were a righteous man, and unjustly condemned, he must be “the Son of God.” Some render, “a son of a god,” that is, according to the pagan notions, a hero, or demi-god, such as Hercules, Bacchus, etc. But in this, and in some other places, the article is omitted before uios, son, when it is used in the highest sense; and Bishop Middleton, on the Greek article, has shown, that theou uios, son of God, and uios tou theou, “the son of God,” are used without any exact discrimination. “The centurion,” as he observes, “could not fail to know the alleged blasphemy for which our Savior suffered; and had he intended, in heathen phraseology, to express his admiration of our Savior’s conduct, he would not have called our Savior theou uios.” For the same grammatical construction: “son of God,” where “son” occurs without the article before an expressed verb: ver. 40, 54. Mt 4:3, 6. 14:33. Mk 15:39. Lk 4:3, 9. Jn 10:36. This is known more technically as the anarthrous predicate preceding the verb. “Son of God” occurs with the article following the verb: Mt 16:16. 26:63. Mk 3:11. Lk 4:41. 22:70. Jn 1:49. 11:27. 20:31. Ac 9:20. 1 J 4:15. 5:5. This is technically termed the arthrous predicate following the verb. A rule has been formulated by E. C. Colwell for this grammatical construction as follows: “A definite predicate nominative has the article when it follows the verb; it does not have the article when it precedes the verb” (Journal of Biblical Literature LII, 1933, p. 13; cited in Robert H. Countess, The Jehovah’s Witness’ New Testament, pp. 48, 49. See Nigel Turner, Grammar, vol. 3, p. 183). See the note on Jn 1:1 for the bearing on translation and doctrine of this grammatical construction. It must be carefully noted that the absence of the Greek article before a predicate noun occurring before the verb does not of itself make the noun indefinite or qualitative. The absence of the Greek article is sometimes occasioned by the fact that the noun or phrase has become a formal expression much like a proper name. Sometimes the Greek article is used to point out which noun is the subject of the expressed verb in a predicate nominative construction, to make the statement non-reversible (as in 1 J 4:16, “God is love,” but not “love is God”). When both the subject and predicate nominative have the article, they are spoken of as identical and interchangeable (Mt 13:38, field, world; Jn 1:4, life, light; 11:25, the resurrection, the life; 1 Co 15:56, the sting, the sin; 1 J 3:4, sin, transgression; Re 1:8, Alpha, Omega. See A. T. Robertson, A Grammar of the Greek New Testament, pp. 768, 769, where he cites the additional examples Mt 5:13. 6:22. 16:16. 19:17. 24:45. 26:26, 28. 27:11. Mk 1:11. 6:3. 12:7. 13:11. Jn 1:21. 3:10. 6:14, 50, 63. 8:12. 9:8. 10:7, 11. 14:6, 21. Ac 4:11. 8:10. 9:21. 21:28. 1 Co 11:3. 2 Co 3:17. Ep 2:14. Ph 3:3. Re 1:17. 3:17). The absence of the article, therefore, is no sure proof, in and of itself, that the noun must be indefinite or qualitative. Sometimes the article is introduced to point back to a previous mention of the same subject in either a near or remote context. This element of Greek style involves not using the article at the first mention of a subject, but using the article for each succeeding reference to the same subject. An example of the anaphoric use of the article in a near context is Galatians 3:23, where Paul literally says “before the coming of the faith,” teen pistin, in reference to faith defined in ver. 22. “Faith” is articular in Galatians 3:25, for it refers to verse 22. James 2:14 affords another instance, where it is literally, “Can the faith save,” the article referring to the kind just specified earlier in the verse, a faith which does not produce works. An example involving a more remote context is references to the “dragon” in Revelation. In Re 12:3, the Greek lacks an article when referring to “a great red dragon,” but every subsequent mention has the article, showing that the dragon of chapter 20 and chapter 12 are identical. This grammatical feature is called the anaphoric use of the article. Perhaps there is in some contexts an interweaving of several of these factors taken together. An example of this may be seen in the absence or non-use of the Greek article in connection with the “holy spirit” or “Holy Spirit,” where it is difficult to determine whether the reference is to the Person or his gifts. The first mention in a narrative would not usually have the article, but for doctrinal emphasis to show that the Person, not the gift is meant, the article is sometimes used (Ac *5:3. 7:51. 10:19. 11:12, 15, 28. *13:2. 15:8. 16:32. 21:11. These examples are discussed by Nigel Turner, Grammatical Insights into the New Testament, pp. 17-22).`

[[Glossário do NTSK]]
