---
referencia: 1Co 12.13
alias:
  - 1Co 12:13
  - 1 C 12:13
  - 1 C 12.13
  - 1 Co 12:13
  - 1 Co 12.13
  - 1 Cor 12:13
  - 1 Cor 12.13
  - 1 Corinthians 12:13
  - 1 Corinthians 12.13
  - 1 Coríntios 12:13
  - 1 Coríntios 12.13
  - 1Cor 12:13
  - 1Cor 12.13
  - 1Corinthians 12:13
  - 1Corinthians 12.13
  - 1Coríntios 12:13
  - 1Coríntios 12.13
  - 1o Cor 12:13
  - 1o Cor 12.13
  - 1o Coríntios 12:13
  - 1o Coríntios 12.13
  - 1st Corinthians 12:13
  - 1st Corinthians 12.13
  - First Corinthians 12:13
  - First Corinthians 12.13
  - I Co 12:13
  - I Co 12.13
  - I Cor 12:13
  - I Cor 12.13
  - I Corinthians 12:13
  - I Corinthians 12.13
  - I Coríntios 12:13
  - I Coríntios 12.13
  - Primeiro Cor 12:13
  - Primeiro Cor 12.13
  - Primeiro Coríntios 12:13
  - Primeiro Coríntios 12.13

livro: 1 Coríntios
sigla: 1Co
indice_livro: 46
capitulo: 12
versiculo: 13
KJV: For by one Spirit are we all baptized into one body, whether we be Jews or Gentiles, whether we be bond or free; and have been all made to drink into one Spirit. 
BKJ: Porque por um Espírito, todos nós fomos batizados em um corpo, quer sejamos judeus ou gentios, quer sejamos escravos ou livres, e a todos foi dado beber em um só Espírito. 
testamento: Novo Testamento
canon_judaico: 
canon_cristao: Epístolas Paulinas
data_criacao: 2025-09-03
data_atualizacao: 
status: publicado
tags:
  - Bíblia
  - NovoTestamento
  - EpístolasPaulinas
  - 1Coríntios

---


[[Bíblia]] ➜ [[Novo Testamento]] ➜  [[Epístolas Paulinas]] ➜ [[1 Coríntios]] ➜ [[1Co 12]]
[[1Co 12.12|Voltar]] ❮ [[1Co 12.13]] ❯ [[1Co 12.14|Avançar]]

## 📜 **Texto do Versículo**

| Versão  | Texto                                                                                      |
| ------  | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| BKJ1611 | Porque por um Espírito, todos nós fomos batizados em um corpo, quer sejamos judeus ou gentios, quer sejamos escravos ou livres, e a todos foi dado beber em um só Espírito.  |
| KJV     | For by one Spirit are we all baptized into one body, whether we be Jews or Gentiles, whether we be bond or free; and have been all made to drink into one Spirit.  |

## 🔗 **Referências Cruzadas (NTSK)**

`by. Gr. en. Mt *3:11. Mk 1:8. Lk 3:16. Jn 1:33. Ac 1:5. 11:16. The Greek preposition en, frequently rendered “in,” is instrumental here, indicating agency, and so correctly translated “by,” designating who performs the baptism. Thus five times in this chapter (ver. 3, 3, 9, 9, 13) en is used not of the receiving element, but is instrumental, indicative of agency, though here appearing in its accustomed relation to baptism. The preposition does not indicate the ideal element, but the source of the baptism. The agency originates in withinness, an aspect of agency or influence which is profoundly characteristic of the New Testament (see “in Christ,” Ro +*8:1n. Also 1 Co +*10:2n). Dale notes, “The ground of the use of en to pneumati (as also of en Christo, in Christ) “in the Spirit,” is the influence inseparable from withinness, where one thing is enveloped in another thing. Generally it is the inclosing substance that influences the inclosed; sometimes it is the reverse.… Both forms of influence are freely used in Scripture. Christians are said to be in Christ and Christ in them (Ro 8:1; Col 1:27). So it is said of the Spirit; “If the Spirit of God dwell in you” (Ro 8:9), “For David said (en to pneumati to agio) in the Holy Ghost” (Mk 12:36). This withinness is for the sake of influence” (Christic Baptism, p. 320), Ro ✓8:11. “It is in this aspect that the Holy Spirit always appears as the agent in baptism. While Christ is declared to be the Baptizer he is declared so to be on the ground that he, himself, is ‘in the Holy Spirit,’ and thus invested with the power of the Spirit, does baptize by the Spirit” (J. W. Dale, Christic Baptism, pp. 319, 320). Mt 3:11, 16. Mt *12:28. Jn 1:32, 33. 3:34. Ac *2:33. one Spirit. Gr. pneuma, Mt +3:16. Mt ◐+1:20. Ep 2:18. are we. lit. were we. In Greek the tense is first aorist passive indicative, and so a reference to a definite past event with each of them (A. T. Robertson, Word Pictures, vol. 4, p. 171. Robertson goes on to make this past event their water baptism, with which I firmly disagree, for the reasons given in the following note. It would hardly suit Paul’s theme of the unity of the body to make this a reference to water baptism which at Corinth had been such a source of divisiveness (1 Co 1:11-17). This past event must have been their regeneration, with which event Scripture teaches the baptism in this verse coincides, thus forming a “double baptism,” discussed next under the words all baptized). all baptized. Gr. baptizo, Mt +3:6. This baptism is not accomplished by a human administrator, but divine, the Holy Spirit himself. The result is placement into the one body (Ep +*4:4). The efficacy is complete and total, for it infallibly extends to “all” who have truly placed their faith in Jesus as Lord (ver. 3). This stated universality forbids the application or restriction of this verse to any “second work of grace” subsequent to initial salvation. This unfailing and universal efficacy goes beyond the power of any humanly administered ordinance (Ac ◐8:13, 21), and is therefore a reference to real, not ritual, baptism (Ac 1:5n). Notice that water is not to be found in this verse or the immediate context. It is the baptism of all individual regenerate persons who are under the influence of the Holy Spirit, and subject to the Lordship of Christ (ver. 3). It is a baptism of unification, by the distribution of appropriate and varied gifts to every member of the body of Christ, as distinguished from the baptism of regeneration (Ti 3:5) which unites the individual soul to Christ and makes one a participant in his redemption. Thus the Holy Spirit continues this work of double baptism (of the individual “into Christ,” and of “all into one body”) until this wondrous work of placing Jews and Gentiles into one body is complete (Dale, Christic Baptism, p. 323). 1 Co +*10:2. Nu 11:29. Is 32:15. 44:3-5. Ezk *36:25-27. Jl +*2:28n, 29. Mt *3:11. Lk *3:16. Jn 1:16, *33. ✓3:5. Ac +*1:5. Ro +*6:3-6. +✓8:9-11. Ga +3:27. Ep +*4:5. 5:26. Col +*2:11, 12. Ti 3:4-6. 1 P 3:21. into one body. Ep +*4:4. Col +*1:27. whether we be Jews. 1 Co 10:32. Jl +*2:28n. Ac +*2:17. Ro 3:29. 4:11. Ga 3:23, +*28. Ep *2:11-16, 19-22. +*3:6. Col 1:27. *3:11. Gentiles. Gr. Greeks. 1 Co +*10:32. bond. 1 Co *7:21, 22. Ep 6:8. Re 6:15. 13:16. 19:18. have been all. The assertion that the following verb given to drink “points to a conscious, voluntary reception of the Spirit on the part of each Spirit-baptized Christian, not something which automatically happens to him” (The Layman’s Commentary on the Holy Spirit, John Rea, editor, on this text) must be rejected, since it denies the universality of “all.” The universality of “all” forbids the limitation of the following “made to drink” to those who have become “Spirit-baptized Christians” as distinguished from those who allegedly have not; no such division into separate classes of Christians is contemplated here by Paul, who is establishing the grounds of unity, not diversity, of believers in the one body. made to drink. ƒ108B, Je +15:16. ❅S#4222g. Rendered (1) give to drink: Mt 10:42. 27:48. Mk 9:41. 15:36. (2) give drink: Mt 25:35, 37, 42. Ro 12:20. (3) water: 1 Co 3:6, 7, 8. (4) make to drink: 1 Co 12:13. Re 14:8. (5) watering: Lk 13:15. (6) feed: 1 Co 3:2. This verb has the same tense in Greek as the preceding verb “were baptized,” first aorist passive indicative, and therefore refers to a one-time non-repeatable event or experience in the past, when these Christians (ver. 3) individually received the Holy Spirit in regeneration for salvation (Jn ✓4:10, 14. ✓7:37-39. Ti ✓3:5). It is, therefore, a reference to the inward reception of the indwelling Holy Spirit at conversion. 1 Co 2:12. 3:2. +*6:19. SS 5:1. Is *41:17, 18. *55:1. Zc 9:15-17. Jn ✓4:10, 14. *6:63. ✓7:37-39. Ac 2:17. Ro 5:5. +*8:9, 11, 15. Ga 3:2. Spirit. Gr. pneuma, ƒ121A1, Lk +1:17n? or, more probably, Mt +3:16. ver. 4, 11. Ep 2:18.`

[[Glossário do NTSK]]
