---
referencia: 1Co 12.30
alias:
  - 1Co 12:30
  - 1 C 12:30
  - 1 C 12.30
  - 1 Co 12:30
  - 1 Co 12.30
  - 1 Cor 12:30
  - 1 Cor 12.30
  - 1 Corinthians 12:30
  - 1 Corinthians 12.30
  - 1 Coríntios 12:30
  - 1 Coríntios 12.30
  - 1Cor 12:30
  - 1Cor 12.30
  - 1Corinthians 12:30
  - 1Corinthians 12.30
  - 1Coríntios 12:30
  - 1Coríntios 12.30
  - 1o Cor 12:30
  - 1o Cor 12.30
  - 1o Coríntios 12:30
  - 1o Coríntios 12.30
  - 1st Corinthians 12:30
  - 1st Corinthians 12.30
  - First Corinthians 12:30
  - First Corinthians 12.30
  - I Co 12:30
  - I Co 12.30
  - I Cor 12:30
  - I Cor 12.30
  - I Corinthians 12:30
  - I Corinthians 12.30
  - I Coríntios 12:30
  - I Coríntios 12.30
  - Primeiro Cor 12:30
  - Primeiro Cor 12.30
  - Primeiro Coríntios 12:30
  - Primeiro Coríntios 12.30

livro: 1 Coríntios
sigla: 1Co
indice_livro: 46
capitulo: 12
versiculo: 30
KJV: Have all the gifts of healing? do all speak with tongues? do all interpret? 
BKJ: Têm todos do dom de cura? Falam todos em línguas? Fazem todos interpretações? 
testamento: Novo Testamento
canon_judaico: 
canon_cristao: Epístolas Paulinas
data_criacao: 2025-09-03
data_atualizacao: 
status: publicado
tags:
  - Bíblia
  - NovoTestamento
  - EpístolasPaulinas
  - 1Coríntios

---


[[Bíblia]] ➜ [[Novo Testamento]] ➜  [[Epístolas Paulinas]] ➜ [[1 Coríntios]] ➜ [[1Co 12]]
[[1Co 12.29|Voltar]] ❮ [[1Co 12.30]] ❯ [[1Co 12.31|Avançar]]

## 📜 **Texto do Versículo**

| Versão  | Texto                                                                                      |
| ------  | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| BKJ1611 | Têm todos do dom de cura? Falam todos em línguas? Fazem todos interpretações?  |
| KJV     | Have all the gifts of healing? do all speak with tongues? do all interpret?  |

## 🔗 **Referências Cruzadas (NTSK)**

`do all. ƒ85C, Ge +18:14. As in ver. 29, the Greek mee expects and requires a negative answer. This settles, once and for all, the question as to whether speaking in tongues is the evidence of having the Holy Spirit. Since all believers do not speak in tongues, it can serve as no such universal evidence. Yet all believers have the Holy Spirit (ver. 13. Ro 8:9, 11), and all believers have been baptized into the one body by the Holy Spirit (ver. 13). speak with tongues. Speaking in tongues was a highly prized gift at Corinth, but was of little use without an interpreter. The miraculous gift of tongues was a gift of speaking a known language which one had not learned naturally; tongues were not outbursts of ecstatic gibberish. Paul consistently places this troublesome gift at the bottom of the list, signifying its low priority. It is very probable that this gift, along with the rest of the miraculous or supernatural gifts discussed in this chapter and chapter 14, served a very temporary revelatory and confirmatory purpose while the early church was being founded by the original apostles, before the writing of the New Testament. In particular, tongues as a gift was intended to provoke Israel to jealousy, a sign to unbelieving Jews because it was a specific fulfillment of prophecy (1 Co 14:21, citing Is 28:11, 12), warning them of their impending judgment for rejecting the truth. Since Israel was scattered and the nation and temple destroyed in A.D. 70, it is doubtful that this gift would serve this purpose beyond that date, and so would cease. This may explain why tongues are not mentioned in Paul’s later epistles. Supposed modern manifestations of these gifts are likely counterfeit (being evidence of “experience centered,” instead of “Bible centered” or “Christ centered” Christianity, Is 65:5n, placing an overemphasis upon the Holy Spirit, Jn 16:13n, and so failing to maintain the Biblical balance of truth, Ac 2:24n. Is 43:10n). Watchman Nee has written a volume (The Latent Power of the Soul) which wisely cautions that many supposed manifestations of the Holy Spirit are in reality counterfeit productions of the human spirit. Spiritual gifts are predicted to reappear in the last days after the Great Tribulation and the final restoration of Israel (Jl +*2:28n). Their supposed presence in the church today is at least problematical. Clearly the revelatory gifts are out of place now that God’s written revelation is complete. Anyone who now claims to be receiving revelatory knowledge from God who is not getting it directly from the written word of God in the Bible is adding to the word of God, which is forbidden by Scripture itself (Pr 30:6. Re 22:18).`

[[Glossário do NTSK]]
