---
referencia: 1Co 2.13
alias:
  - 1Co 2:13
  - 1 C 2:13
  - 1 C 2.13
  - 1 Co 2:13
  - 1 Co 2.13
  - 1 Cor 2:13
  - 1 Cor 2.13
  - 1 Corinthians 2:13
  - 1 Corinthians 2.13
  - 1 Coríntios 2:13
  - 1 Coríntios 2.13
  - 1Cor 2:13
  - 1Cor 2.13
  - 1Corinthians 2:13
  - 1Corinthians 2.13
  - 1Coríntios 2:13
  - 1Coríntios 2.13
  - 1o Cor 2:13
  - 1o Cor 2.13
  - 1o Coríntios 2:13
  - 1o Coríntios 2.13
  - 1st Corinthians 2:13
  - 1st Corinthians 2.13
  - First Corinthians 2:13
  - First Corinthians 2.13
  - I Co 2:13
  - I Co 2.13
  - I Cor 2:13
  - I Cor 2.13
  - I Corinthians 2:13
  - I Corinthians 2.13
  - I Coríntios 2:13
  - I Coríntios 2.13
  - Primeiro Cor 2:13
  - Primeiro Cor 2.13
  - Primeiro Coríntios 2:13
  - Primeiro Coríntios 2.13

livro: 1 Coríntios
sigla: 1Co
indice_livro: 46
capitulo: 2
versiculo: 13
KJV: Which things also we speak, not in the words which man’s wisdom teacheth, but which the Holy Ghost teacheth; comparing spiritual things with spiritual. 
BKJ: As coisas que nós também falamos, não com palavras de ensino de sabedoria humana, mas com as ensinadas pelo Santo Espírito, comparando as coisas espirituais com as espirituais. 
testamento: Novo Testamento
canon_judaico: 
canon_cristao: Epístolas Paulinas
data_criacao: 2025-09-03
data_atualizacao: 
status: publicado
tags:
  - Bíblia
  - NovoTestamento
  - EpístolasPaulinas
  - 1Coríntios

---


[[Bíblia]] ➜ [[Novo Testamento]] ➜  [[Epístolas Paulinas]] ➜ [[1 Coríntios]] ➜ [[1Co 2]]
[[1Co 2.12|Voltar]] ❮ [[1Co 2.13]] ❯ [[1Co 2.14|Avançar]]

## 📜 **Texto do Versículo**

| Versão  | Texto                                                                                      |
| ------  | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| BKJ1611 | As coisas que nós também falamos, não com palavras de ensino de sabedoria humana, mas com as ensinadas pelo Santo Espírito, comparando as coisas espirituais com as espirituais.  |
| KJV     | Which things also we speak, not in the words which man’s wisdom teacheth, but which the Holy Ghost teacheth; comparing spiritual things with spiritual.  |

## 🔗 **Referências Cruzadas (NTSK)**

`not. ver. 1, 4. 1 Co *1:17-19. 2 P 1:16. 1 J 2:20. the words. This is a specific claim to verbal inspiration. Divine inspiration of Scripture is asserted also at 2 Ti 3:16, as is the divine inspiration of the Scripture writers, 2 P 1:21. Failure to accept the Bible’s own testimony to itself has closed this Book to so-called “modern scholarship” (a misnomer if ever there was one!). Much modern scholarship is dishonest, for instead of explaining the Bible, it attempts to explain away the Bible, refusing to honestly come to grips with its claims and message. In an effort to escape the Bible’s obvious message, dishonest scholarship has tried to deny its authenticity and authorship, ascribing, for example, the books of Moses to multiple late authorship; denying the unity of Isaiah; asserting that the gospels, particularly John, are of late origin, and do not reflect the so-called “historical Jesus,” but views and traditions of the early Church of the third or fourth century—not explaining, of course, how books can be quoted or translated before they were written, or how such stupendous claims could be foisted upon a gullible public long after the possibility of disproof by eyewitnesses has passed. The only way to get at the message of the Bible is to be completely open to its message. To approach Scripture with humanistic and naturalistic (i.e. anti-theistic) presuppositions is to try to twist Scripture to fit a world view which it most emphatically will not support. The only valid approach to Scripture is to be honest to its claims and message and grant its right to set forth a theistic, supernaturalistic world view. To deny the possibility of miracle (as Hume and his modern counterparts) is to deny the possibility of history, for both are based upon the record of eye-witness testimony, and such denial is absurd. There are more pathways to truth and knowledge than an arbitrarily narrowly defined so-called “scientific method.” Like missing the right exit on a freeway, continued advance in the wrong direction is not progress; genuine progress will require a return to where we went wrong, and a fresh start in the right direction. Much “scholarship” needs to recognize it has pursued a wrong path, and recognize that it needs to return to sound principles of former generations of reverent, truthful, believing scholarship. It is neither truthful nor fair scholarship to approach a work of literature from a consistently unsympathetic and hostile world view in the attempt to legitimately understand its message. Rather, in our attempt to understand a work of literature, we must let it speak for itself. The task of scholarship is to place the reader as close as possible in sympathetic relationship to the viewpoint of the original writer and recipients of the literary work, and not to attempt to explain it away in an effort to force it to agree with popular contemporary philosophical presuppositions. Lk ✓8:15. 1 Th ✓2:13. 2 Ti +*3:16. 1 P 1:10, 11. 2 P 1:20, 21. 3:1, 2. but which. ƒ63I1A, Ex +12:4. By ellipsis supply “but (things) which.” 1 Co *12:1-3. 14:2. Lk *12:12. Ac 2:4. *13:32-37. 1 P 1:12. Holy. Gr. pneuma, Mt +1:18n. comparing. Or, as Bishop Pearce renders, “explaining (sugkrinantes) spiritual things to spiritual men” (pneumatikois). To this alternative, however, Hodge rightly objects, for it is inconsistent with the context. Paul is rather asserting that he explained spiritual things in spiritual words. The word rendered “comparing” here means interpreting or explaining. T#1033. Ge 40:8, 16. 41:12, 15. Da 5:12. Lk +*4:18n. Jn +*5:39. Ac +*17:3, 11. 2 Co 10:12. spiritual things. ƒ147I, Jn +1:11. ver. 14. 1 Co 9:11. 10:3-5. Ep 5:19. Col *3:16. with spiritual. Ro +1:11g.`

[[Glossário do NTSK]]
