---
referencia: Is 65.11
alias:
  - Is 65:11
  - Isa 65:11
  - Isa 65.11
  - Isaiah 65:11
  - Isaiah 65.11
  - Isaías 65:11
  - Isaías 65.11

livro: Isaías
sigla: Is
indice_livro: 23
capitulo: 65
versiculo: 11
KJV: But ye are they that forsake the LORD, that forget my holy mountain, that prepare a table for that troop, and that furnish the drink offering unto that number. 
BKJ: Vós, porém, sois aqueles que abandonaram o SENHOR, que esqueceram meu santo monte, que preparam uma mesa para aquele grupo, e que fornece a libação para aquele número de pessoas. 
testamento: Antigo Testamento
canon_judaico: Nevi'im
canon_cristao: Profetas Maiores
data_criacao: 2025-09-03
data_atualizacao: 
status: publicado
tags:
  - Bíblia
  - AntigoTestamento
  - ProfetasMaiores
  - Isaías

---


[[Bíblia]] ➜ [[Antigo Testamento]] ➜ [[Nevi'im]] / [[Profetas Maiores]] ➜ [[Isaías]] ➜ [[Is 65]]
[[Is 65.10|Voltar]] ❮ [[Is 65.11]] ❯ [[Is 65.12|Avançar]]

## 📜 **Texto do Versículo**

| Versão  | Texto                                                                                      |
| ------  | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| BKJ1611 | Vós, porém, sois aqueles que abandonaram o SENHOR, que esqueceram meu santo monte, que preparam uma mesa para aquele grupo, e que fornece a libação para aquele número de pessoas.  |
| KJV     | But ye are they that forsake the LORD, that forget my holy mountain, that prepare a table for that troop, and that furnish the drink offering unto that number.  |

## 🔗 **Referências Cruzadas (NTSK)**

`they that forsake. F/L Is 1:+4, 28. Dt 28:20▶𝒫. 29:25. 1 Ch +*28:9. Je 2:28. 17:13. Jn 1:11. 1 Co 10:21. my holy. ver. 25. Is 2:2. 11:9. 56:7. 57:13. Ps 132:13, 14. He 12:22. Re 21:2, 3. prepare. Is 57:5-10. Dt 32:17. Je 2:28. Ezk 23:41, 42. 1 Co 10:20, 21. troop. or, Gad. or, fortune. Ge 30:11. Jsh 11:17. The disquisitions and conjectures of the learned, says Bp. Lowth, concerning Gad and Meni, are infinite and uncertain: perhaps the most probable may be, that Gad means good fortune, and Meni, the moon. “But why should we be solicitous about it,” says Schmidius. “It appears sufficiently, from the circumstances, that they were false gods; either stars, or some natural object; or a mere fiction. The Holy Scriptures did not deign to explain more clearly what those objects of idolatrous worship were; but chose rather that the memory of the knowledge of them should be utterly abolished. And God be praised, that they are so totally abolished, that we are now quite at a loss to know what sort of things they were.” Ge +24:44n. drink offering. Is 5:22. Pr 23:30. Je 7:18. 19:13. 44:17. number. or, Meni. or, fill up mingled wine unto Destiny. Thus a reference to the gods of Fortune and Fate. Arthur Carr, Horae Biblicae, “The Exclusion of Chance from the Bible,” remarks that this passage “contains a direct protest by the prophet Isaiah against the worship of Fortune or Good Luck as a divinity,” further noting that Isaiah plainly indicates that the Jews of the Exile had been attracted by the cult of Fortune. Evidence of this worship is found in Palestine in the place names of Baal-Gad (Jsh 11:17. 12:7. 13:5) and Migdal-Gad (Jsh 15:37). The name Azgad (“strong is Gad,” Ezr 2:12), may indicate that a Jewish family had at one time devoted itself to the service of Fortune. Carr cites Prof. G. A. Smith that this practice of “preparing a table for Gad, and filling up mixed wine to Meni,” may be closely connected with the commercial spirit which the Jews imbibed for the first time during the Exile. “The merchants of Mesopotamia had their own patron gods. In completing business contracts a man had to swear by the idols, and might have to enter their temples” (G. A. Smith, Book of Isaiah, ii. 62). In this way the Jewish trader would be drawn into idolatry.—If this conjecture be true, and it carries with it the highest probability, how closely does the whole subject connect itself not only with the commercial transactions of the present day on their speculative side, but with the spirit of gambling generally. It was quite in accordance with the teaching of Holy Scripture that games of chance were repudiated by the stricter Jews (Schurer, ii. 1, 36). It has sometimes been thought difficult to discover a principle on which to base a general condemnation of games of chance. However this may be, a sufficient justification will be found for discountenancing and condemning what Bishop Cosin calls “inordinate gaming,” not only in the stern reproof of the prophet (Is 65:11), but in the whole of the remarkable and suggestive contrast presented to the life and literature of pagan civilization by the thought, and utterance, and silence of the Bible (Arthur Carr, pp. 38-46). See Note on Ge 24:44n.`

[[Glossário do NTSK]]
