---
referencia: 2Sm 5.23
alias:
  - 2Sm 5:23
  - 2 S 5:23
  - 2 S 5.23
  - 2 Sa 5:23
  - 2 Sa 5.23
  - 2 Sam 5:23
  - 2 Sam 5.23
  - 2 Samuel 5:23
  - 2 Samuel 5.23
  - 2 Sm 5:23
  - 2 Sm 5.23
  - 2S 5:23
  - 2S 5.23
  - 2Sa 5:23
  - 2Sa 5.23
  - 2Sam 5:23
  - 2Sam 5.23
  - 2nd Sam 5:23
  - 2nd Sam 5.23
  - 2nd Samuel 5:23
  - 2nd Samuel 5.23
  - 2o Sam 5:23
  - 2o Sam 5.23
  - 2o Samuel 5:23
  - 2o Samuel 5.23
  - II Sa 5:23
  - II Sa 5.23
  - II Sam 5:23
  - II Sam 5.23
  - IISam 5:23
  - IISam 5.23
  - Second Sam 5:23
  - Second Sam 5.23
  - Second Samuel 5:23
  - Second Samuel 5.23
  - Segundo Sam 5:23
  - Segundo Sam 5.23
  - Segundo Samuel 5:23
  - Segundo Samuel 5.23

livro: 2 Samuel
sigla: 2Sm
indice_livro: 10
capitulo: 5
versiculo: 23
KJV: And when David enquired of the LORD, he said, Thou shalt not go up; but fetch a compass behind them, and come upon them over against the mulberry trees. 
BKJ: E quando Davi consultou o SENHOR, ele disse - Tu não subirás; mas faz um cerco por trás deles, e investe sobre eles contra as amoreiras. 
testamento: Antigo Testamento
canon_judaico: Nevi'im
canon_cristao: Livros Históricos
data_criacao: 2025-09-03
data_atualizacao: 
status: publicado
tags:
  - Bíblia
  - AntigoTestamento
  - LivrosHistóricos
  - 2Samuel

---


[[Bíblia]] ➜ [[Antigo Testamento]] ➜ [[Nevi'im]] / [[Livros Históricos]] ➜ [[2 Samuel]] ➜ [[2Sm 5]]
[[2Sm 5.22|Voltar]] ❮ [[2Sm 5.23]] ❯ [[2Sm 5.24|Avançar]]

## 📜 **Texto do Versículo**

| Versão  | Texto                                                                                      |
| ------  | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| BKJ1611 | E quando Davi consultou o SENHOR, ele disse: Tu não subirás; mas faz um cerco por trás deles, e investe sobre eles contra as amoreiras.  |
| KJV     | And when David enquired of the LORD, he said, Thou shalt not go up; but fetch a compass behind them, and come upon them over against the mulberry trees.  |

## 🔗 **Referências Cruzadas (NTSK)**

`enquired. ver. 19. fetch. Jsh 8:2, 7. 1 Ch 14:14. Mt 9:29, 30. Mk 8:23-25. Jn 9:6, 7. the mulberry trees. ver. 24. 1 Ch 14:14, 15. Ps *84:6. The word bechaim, rendered mulberry trees, is rendered by Aquila, apion, “pear-trees,” as the LXX. also render it in 1 Ch 14:14, 15; and so the Vulgate in both places has pyrorum. The Rabbins, however, believe bacha signifies the mulberry tree: with whom Ursinus agrees. It more probably denotes a large shrub which the Arabs still call baca, from its distilling an odoriferous gum, from bachah, “to distill,” as tears. Of this opinion is Celsius, who quotes a passage from Abulfadi, who describes it as a balsam shrub, having longish leaves, and bearing a large fruit with an acrid taste. M. Forskal mentions a tree by the name of baeca, with leaves rather ovated, smooth, entire: its berries are poisonous to the sheep. Robert Dick Wilson wrote of this term in his pamphlet, Is Higher Criticism Scholarly? He wrote, “You will have observed that the critics of the Bible who go to it in order to find fault have a most singular way of claiming to themselves all knowledge and all virtue and all love of truth. One of their favorite phrases is, ‘all scholars agree.’ When a man writes a book and seeks to gain a point by saying ‘All scholars agree,’ I wish to know who the scholars are and why they agree. Where do they get their evidence from to start with? I remember that some years ago I was investigating the word Baca, which you have in the English Bible—“Passing through the valley of Baca, make it a well” (Ps 84:6). I found in the Hebrew dictionary that there was a traveler named Burkhart, who said that Baca meant mulberry trees. That was not very enlightening. I could not see how mulberries had anything to do with water. I looked up all the authority of the scholars in Germany and England since Burkhart’s time and found they had all quoted Burkhart. Just one scholar at the back of it! When I was traveling in the orient, I found that we had delicious water here and there. The water sprang up apparently out of the ground in the midst of the desert. I asked my brother who was a missionary where this water came from. He said, ‘They bring this water from the mountains. It is an underground aqueduct. They cover it over to prevent it from evaporating.’ Now the name of that underground aqueduct was Baca. My point is that you ought to be able to trace back this agreement among scholars to the original scholar who propounded the statement, and then find out whether what that scholar said is true. What was the foundation of his statement?” The valley of Rephaim has been connected by some with the valley of Baca mentioned in Ps 84:6. Thus John D. Davis in his A Dictionary of the Bible, notes “possibly the valley of Rephaim, where such trees were found (2 S 5:22, 23, R.V. margin). Perhaps, however, the expression is figurative, as the Greek and Syrian translators believed, like ‘valley of the shadow of death,’ and denotes any vale of tears.” Though baca has been identified by many, as in Davis, as “a balsam tree, so named from its shedding, as it were, tears of gum; possibly also a noun meaning weeping,” yet the identification is conjectural, as Willis J. Beecher notes in ISBE (1929 ed.), “Conjecturally the word is, by variant spelling, of the stem which denotes weeping.” Wilson’s correction of the identification of baca as an underground acqueduct is more probable than the admittedly conjectural identification with the balsam tree or mulberry tree, for it suits the context, since such an aqueduct is mentioned in ver. 8, by means of which David’s men gained access to the previously unconquerable stronghold of the Jebusites, now Jerusalem. Furthermore, the valley of Rephaim was known for its good water (2 S 23:13, 15, 16).`

[[Glossário do NTSK]]
