---
referencia: At 22.6
alias:
  - At 22:6
  - Ac 22:6
  - Ac 22.6
  - Act 22:6
  - Act 22.6
  - Acts 22:6
  - Acts 22.6
  - Atos 22:6
  - Atos 22.6

livro: Atos
sigla: At
indice_livro: 44
capitulo: 22
versiculo: 6
KJV: And it came to pass, that, as I made my journey, and was come nigh unto Damascus about noon, suddenly there shone from heaven a great light round about me. 
BKJ: E aconteceu que, enquanto eu viajava e me aproximava de Damasco, quase ao meio-dia, de repente brilhou no céu uma grande luz ao meu redor. 
testamento: Novo Testamento
canon_judaico: 
canon_cristao: Atos dos Apóstolos
data_criacao: 2025-09-03
data_atualizacao: 
status: publicado
tags:
  - Bíblia
  - NovoTestamento
  - AtosdosApóstolos
  - Atos

---


[[Bíblia]] ➜ [[Novo Testamento]] ➜  [[Atos dos Apóstolos]] ➜ [[Atos]] ➜ [[At 22]]
[[At 22.5|Voltar]] ❮ [[At 22.6]] ❯ [[At 22.7|Avançar]]

## 📜 **Texto do Versículo**

| Versão  | Texto                                                                                      |
| ------  | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| BKJ1611 | E aconteceu que, enquanto eu viajava e me aproximava de Damasco, quase ao meio-dia, de repente brilhou no céu uma grande luz ao meu redor.  |
| KJV     | And it came to pass, that, as I made my journey, and was come nigh unto Damascus about noon, suddenly there shone from heaven a great light round about me.  |

## 🔗 **Referências Cruzadas (NTSK)**

`And it came. It is evident that the apostle considered his extraordinary conversion as a most complete demonstration of the truth of Christianity; and when all the particulars of his education, his previous religious principles, his zeal, his enmity against Christians, and his prospects of secular honors and preferments by persecuting them, are compared with the subsequent part of his life, and the sudden transition from a furious persecutor to a zealous preacher of the gospel, in which he labored and suffered to the end of his life, and for which he died a martyr, it must convince every candid and impartial person that no rational account can be given of this change, except what he himself assigns; and consequently, if that be true, that Christianity is Divine. It was this very consideration which led to the conversion of Lord Lyttelton in the last century. George Lyttelton, together with Gilbert West, both skeptics, determined to assault the truth of Christianity, persuaded that the Bible was an imposture. Lyttelton chose the Conversion of Paul and Mr. West the Resurrection of Christ for the subject of hostile criticism. In the process each was converted to firm belief in the truth of the Bible and Christianity, and each produced what are still unanswerable defenses of the Bible. Lyttelton wrote Observations on the Conversion of Saint Paul, West wrote Observations on the History and Evidence of the Resurrection of Jesus Christ. Of Lyttelton’s production, Dr. Samuel Johnson forcibly and justly says, it is “a treatise to which infidelity has never been able to fabricate a specious answer.” Lyttelton’s masterful argument, which opens with the proposition “The conversion and apostleship of St. Paul alone, duly considered, was of itself a demonstration sufficient to prove Christianity to be a divine revelation,” is analyzed and condensed by J. L. Campbell in volume two of The Fundamentals, pp. 353-366. In his argument Lyttelton shows that Paul (1) was not an impostor deliberately proclaiming what he knew to be false with intent to deceive; (2) was not imposed upon by an overheated imagination, and (3) was not deceived by the fraud of others. “Unless, therefore, we are prepared to lay aside the use of our understanding and all the rules of evidence by which facts are determined, we must accept the whole story of Paul’s conversion as literally and historically true. We have therefore the supernatural, and the Christian religion is proved to be a revelation from God” (Campbell, The Fundamentals, vol. 2, p. 365). that. See on Ac 9:3-5. 26:12-18. 1 Co 15:8. Damascus. Ge 14:15. 15:2. 2 S 8:6. about noon. Ac 26:13. Is 24:23. Mt 17:2. Re 1:16.`

[[Glossário do NTSK]]
