---
referencia: Lc 13.14
alias:
  - Lc 13:14
  - Lk 13:14
  - Lk 13.14
  - Luc 13:14
  - Luc 13.14
  - Lucas 13:14
  - Lucas 13.14
  - Luk 13:14
  - Luk 13.14
  - Luke 13:14
  - Luke 13.14

livro: Lucas
sigla: Lc
indice_livro: 42
capitulo: 13
versiculo: 14
KJV: And the ruler of the synagogue answered with indignation, because that Jesus had healed on the sabbath day, and said unto the people, There are six days in which men ought to work - in them therefore come and be healed, and not on the sabbath day. 
BKJ: E o governante da sinagoga respondeu com indignação, porque Jesus havia curado no dia do shabat, e disse à multidão - Seis dias há em que o homem deve trabalhar; nestes, pois, vinde para serdes curados, e não no dia do shabat. 
testamento: Novo Testamento
canon_judaico: 
canon_cristao: Evangelhos
data_criacao: 2025-09-03
data_atualizacao: 
status: publicado
tags:
  - Bíblia
  - NovoTestamento
  - Evangelhos
  - Lucas

---


[[Bíblia]] ➜ [[Novo Testamento]] ➜  [[Evangelhos]] ➜ [[Lucas]] ➜ [[Lc 13]]
[[Lc 13.13|Voltar]] ❮ [[Lc 13.14]] ❯ [[Lc 13.15|Avançar]]

## 📜 **Texto do Versículo**

| Versão  | Texto                                                                                      |
| ------  | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| BKJ1611 | E o governante da sinagoga respondeu com indignação, porque Jesus havia curado no dia do shabat, e disse à multidão: Seis dias há em que o homem deve trabalhar; nestes, pois, vinde para serdes curados, e não no dia do shabat.  |
| KJV     | And the ruler of the synagogue answered with indignation, because that Jesus had healed on the sabbath day, and said unto the people, There are six days in which men ought to work: in them therefore come and be healed, and not on the sabbath day.  |

## 🔗 **Referências Cruzadas (NTSK)**

`the ruler. Lk 8:41. Mk 5:22. Ac 13:15. 18:8, 17. answered. Mk 11:14. with indignation. Lk 6:11. Mt 20:24. 21:15. 26:8. Mk 10:14, 41. 14:4. Jn 5:15, 16. Ro 10:2. 2 Co 7:11g. because. Jn 5:15, 16. Ro 10:2. healed on the sabbath. Christ’s doctrine and spirit regarding the Sabbath are recorded in the eleven or so occasions where it is mentioned in the following parallel passages: Lk 4:16-22, 31-37, 38-41. 6:1-5. *14:3. Mt 12:2, 9-21. Mk 6:1-6. Jn 5:5, etc. 7:21, etc. 9:16. From these narratives we “find (1) That our Lord always honored and kept the Sabbath; (2) That He performed miracles of healing upon it, only when important occasions arose, and in order to confirm His doctrine, and ensure faith in His messiahship; (3) That these acts were never in violation, but entirely in accordance with the Mosaic law; (4) That they were especially designed to relieve the institution from the oppressive traditions of the Scribes and Pharisees; (5) That no objections were taken against them at first, and that the cavils afterwards raised were only pretences to cover their hatred to His divine mission; (6) That our Lord’s defences of Himself and His disciples proceeded on what had ever been the real import of the fourth commandment, though misunderstood; and assumed that the Sabbath itself was of perpetual obligation; (7) That all this is confirmed by our Lord’s caution concerning the flight of his disciples at the destruction of Jerusalem, Mt 24:20; and (8) By the conduct and doctrines of his inspired apostles at the first promulgation of the gospel—then it will be admitted that our Savior, so far from relaxing the fourth commandment, or abrogating the essential law of the Sabbath, vindicated it, established it, and left it in more than its original authority and glory” (Daniel Wilson, The Lord’s Day, p. 70). Wilson argues “That nothing is abrogated under the Christian dispensation with respect to the Sabbath, but those temporary and figurative enactments which constituted the peculiarities of the Jewish age” (p. 80, 81). Wilson believes that the distinguishing promise of the New Covenant is the promise to write God’s laws into our minds, and upon our hearts (He 8:10), taking “my laws” to be a reference to the decalogue. This is compared to 2 Co 3:3, where Paul mentions “tables of stone” (taken to be the two tables of the ten commandments) and “fleshy tables of the heart.” Wilson argues that in the transfer of these tables of the law to our hearts by the Holy Spirit, not one of the commandments is lost in the transfer (pp. 85-87). Ps 119:128. Is +*58:13n. Ro 7:22. 1 J 5:3. Yet, though Wilson alludes (on p. 83) to Col 2:14-17, he really skirts this one text which, above all others, seems clearly to remove the Sabbath commandment as an obligation to Christians, with the mere assertion that “nothing but the ceremonies and shadows connected with it are dispersed; the substance still remaining” (p. 84). Ac 15:10. Ro 14:1, 5. 1 Co 9:20. Ga 4:7-11. 5:1. There are six. Ex +*20:9. 23:12. 34:12. 35:2. Le 23:3. Dt 5:13. Ezk 20:12. 46:1. and not. Lk 6:7. 14:3-6. Mt *12:10-12. Mk 3:2-6. Jn *5:16. 9:14-16.`

[[Glossário do NTSK]]
