---
referencia: Lc 17.21
alias:
  - Lc 17:21
  - Lk 17:21
  - Lk 17.21
  - Luc 17:21
  - Luc 17.21
  - Lucas 17:21
  - Lucas 17.21
  - Luk 17:21
  - Luk 17.21
  - Luke 17:21
  - Luke 17.21

livro: Lucas
sigla: Lc
indice_livro: 42
capitulo: 17
versiculo: 21
KJV: Neither shall they say, Lo here! or, lo there! for, behold, the kingdom of God is within you. 
BKJ: nem eles dirão - Ei-lo aqui! Ou - Ei-lo ali! Porque eis que o reino de Deus está dentro de vós. 
testamento: Novo Testamento
canon_judaico: 
canon_cristao: Evangelhos
data_criacao: 2025-09-03
data_atualizacao: 
status: publicado
tags:
  - Bíblia
  - NovoTestamento
  - Evangelhos
  - Lucas

---


[[Bíblia]] ➜ [[Novo Testamento]] ➜  [[Evangelhos]] ➜ [[Lucas]] ➜ [[Lc 17]]
[[Lc 17.20|Voltar]] ❮ [[Lc 17.21]] ❯ [[Lc 17.22|Avançar]]

## 📜 **Texto do Versículo**

| Versão  | Texto                                                                                      |
| ------  | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| BKJ1611 | nem eles dirão: Ei-lo aqui! Ou: Ei-lo ali! Porque eis que o reino de Deus está dentro de vós.  |
| KJV     | Neither shall they say, Lo here! or, lo there! for, behold, the kingdom of God is within you.  |

## 🔗 **Referências Cruzadas (NTSK)**

`Lo here. ver. 23. Lk 21:8. Mt *24:23-28. Mk *13:21-23. the kingdom. Lk +*21:31. +*22:29, 30. Mt +✓21:43. Jn +*18:36. Ro *14:17. Col 1:27. is. ƒ96C6, Mt +2:4. Heterosis of Tenses, whereby the Present is put for the Future, to show that something will certainly come to pass, and is spoken of as though it were already present. Compare for this figure Mt 26:2; 1 Co 15:42-44. within you. or, among you. Lk 10:9-11. ✓11:20. Mt *12:28. Mk +1:15. Jn *1:26. 12:35. This passage, especially the marginal reading “among you,” has been the subject of much controversy. Those who favor the marginal reading argue that Christ could scarcely have said of the Pharisees he was addressing that the kingdom of God was within them. But Robertson cites authority for suggesting that there is no clear instance where entos means among. The only other N.T. occurrence of the word at Mt 23:26 necessarily requires the meaning “within” (“the inside of the cup”). Robertson comments “What Jesus says to the Pharisees is that they, as others, are to look for the kingdom of God within themselves, not in outward displays and supernatural manifestations. It is not a localized display ‘Here’ or ‘There.’ It is in this sense that in Luke 11:20 Jesus spoke of the kingdom of God as ‘come upon you,’ speaking to the Pharisees” (Word Pictures, vol. 2, p. 229). Lk ✓11:20. Mt 12:28. Jn 1:26. 12:35. More consistently with the teaching of Scripture, Peters states: “Surely He did not mean that the Pharisees who addressed Him and to whom He spoke, had the Kingdom within them individually, personally. The phrase ‘within you’ is susceptible of an easy and consistent solution” (Theocratic Kingdom, vol. 2, Proposition 110, Observation 2, p. 41). The kingdom is covenanted to the Jewish nation; it is an elect nation; the kingdom belonged so exclusively to them that the public ministry of John the Baptist, Jesus and the disciples, was confined to that nation. The kingdom was tendered to the Jewish nation; on its refusal (through its representative men) to repent, the kingdom is postponed, and those who are to receive it as an inheritance with Christ are grafted into that elect nation. These considerations show at once how this kingdom was “within” them. It was truly “within” the nation, it being the elect nation (Peters, Theocratic Kingdom, vol. 2, p. 42).`

[[Glossário do NTSK]]
