---
referencia: Lc 24.1
alias:
  - Lc 24:1
  - Lk 24:1
  - Lk 24.1
  - Luc 24:1
  - Luc 24.1
  - Lucas 24:1
  - Lucas 24.1
  - Luk 24:1
  - Luk 24.1
  - Luke 24:1
  - Luke 24.1

livro: Lucas
sigla: Lc
indice_livro: 42
capitulo: 24
versiculo: 1
KJV: Now upon the first day of the week, very early in the morning, they came unto the sepulchre, bringing the spices which they had prepared, and certain others with them. 
BKJ: Ora, no primeiro dia da semana, muito cedo de manhã, elas foram ao sepulcro, levando as especiarias que tinham preparado, e algumas outras com elas. 
testamento: Novo Testamento
canon_judaico: 
canon_cristao: Evangelhos
data_criacao: 2025-09-03
data_atualizacao: 
status: publicado
tags:
  - Bíblia
  - NovoTestamento
  - Evangelhos
  - Lucas

---


[[Bíblia]] ➜ [[Novo Testamento]] ➜  [[Evangelhos]] ➜ [[Lucas]] ➜ [[Lc 24]]
[[Lc 23.56|Voltar]] ❮ [[Lc 24.1]] ❯ [[Lc 24.2|Avançar]]

## 📜 **Texto do Versículo**

| Versão  | Texto                                                                                      |
| ------  | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| BKJ1611 | Ora, no primeiro dia da semana, muito cedo de manhã, elas foram ao sepulcro, levando as especiarias que tinham preparado, e algumas outras com elas.  |
| KJV     | Now upon the first day of the week, very early in the morning, they came unto the sepulchre, bringing the spices which they had prepared, and certain others with them.  |

## 🔗 **Referências Cruzadas (NTSK)**

`upon. Mt*28:1-8. Mk*16:1, 2. Jn*20:1, 2. first day. “The first day of the week is the day after the Sabbath, or Seventh Day, and is therefore the Eighth Day. Indeed, as the number Seven is the Sabbatical number, or number of Rest, in Holy Scripture, so Eight may be called the Dominical.Seven is expressive of rest in Christ;Eight is expressive of Resurrection to new life and glory in Him. In accordance with this principle, the Eighth Day was the Day of Circumcision (cp. Lk1:59. Ph3:5),—the type of Christian Baptism,—the Sacrament of Resurrection,—in which we rise from the death of sin to newness of Life in Him. Our Lord received the name Jesus on the eighth day (Lk2:21); He as our Jesus, Joshua, Savior, brings us to the heavenly Canaan,—to the glory of the Resurrection. The Name Jesus, Savior, given to Him on the Eighth Day, makes in the universal language (Greek) the number eight in hundreds, tens, and units,—888. The great Day of the Feast of Tabernacles—the type of His Incarnation—was the Eighth (John 7:37). And in His Sermon on the Mount He pronounces Eight Beatitudes describing the way that leads to the fruition of heavenly glory. Hence we also find, that the Transfiguration—which was a figure and a glimpse of the future glory of the bodies of the Saints after the Resurrection—is mentioned as having taken place eight days after our Lord had said, “There be some standing here which shall not taste of death till they see the kingdom of God” (Lk9:27)” (Wordsworth, Greek Testament, vol. 1, p. 252). Ac20:7. 1 Co16:2. Re1:10. they came. ver. 10. Lk8:2, 3. 23:55, 56. Mt27:55, 56. Mk15:40. bringing. To embalm the body of our Lord; which shows that they had no hope of his resurrection on the third day. Nicodemus and Joseph of Arimathea had done this before the body was laid in the tomb; but on account of the approach of the sabbath, it was probably hastily and imperfectly performed; and hence a second embalmingwould be deemed necessary, for which purpose the spices now brought by the women were intended. Lk23:56. spices. Mk16:1.`

[[Glossário do NTSK]]
