---
referencia: Hb 10.4
alias:
  - Hb 10:4
  - He 10:4
  - He 10.4
  - Heb 10:4
  - Heb 10.4
  - Hebreus 10:4
  - Hebreus 10.4
  - Hebrews 10:4
  - Hebrews 10.4

livro: Hebreus
sigla: Hb
indice_livro: 58
capitulo: 10
versiculo: 4
KJV: For it is not possible that the blood of bulls and of goats should take away sins. 
BKJ: Porque não é possível que o sangue de touros e de bodes tire pecados. 
testamento: Novo Testamento
canon_judaico: 
canon_cristao: Epístolas Gerais
data_criacao: 2025-09-03
data_atualizacao: 
status: publicado
tags:
  - Bíblia
  - NovoTestamento
  - EpístolasGerais
  - Hebreus

---


[[Bíblia]] ➜ [[Novo Testamento]] ➜  [[Epístolas Gerais]] ➜ [[Hebreus]] ➜ [[Hb 10]]
[[Hb 10.3|Voltar]] ❮ [[Hb 10.4]] ❯ [[Hb 10.5|Avançar]]

## 📜 **Texto do Versículo**

| Versão  | Texto                                                                                      |
| ------  | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| BKJ1611 | Porque não é possível que o sangue de touros e de bodes tire pecados.  |
| KJV     | For it is not possible that the blood of bulls and of goats should take away sins.  |

## 🔗 **Referências Cruzadas (NTSK)**

`not. ver. 8, 11. He 9:9, 13. Ps 50:8-12. 51:16. Is 1:11-15. 66:3. Je 6:20. 7:21, 22. Ho 6:6. Am 5:21, 22. Mi +*6:6-8. Mk 12:33. the blood. He +9:12. take. There were essential defects in these sacrifices. 1st.—They were not of the same nature with those who sinned. 2nd.—They were not of sufficient value to make satisfaction for the affronts done to the justice and government of God. 3rd.—The beasts offered up under the law could not consent to put themselves in the sinner’s room and place. The atoning sacrifice must be one capable of consenting, and must voluntarily substitute himself in the sinner’s stead: Christ did so. The nature and requirements of Christ’s office as our substitute in his work of redemption through His death on the Cross absolutely require of Him that He be divine. A substitute must meet at least these six qualifications: (1) He must honor and obey the law which those for whom he substitutes are dishonoring and disobeying, as highly as though it had never been broken, so that justice will not be injured. Ge 18:25. Ps 40:7, 8. Is 42:21. Jn *8:46. This demands the impeccability of Christ (He +*4:15). (2) Though giving perfect obedience to the law that is being broken, he must yet suffer its full penalty as though he had been the supreme criminal against it, so that mercy will not be injured. He 7:26. Is 53:3. 2 Co *5:21. (3) He must do his work as a substitute voluntarily and without the slightest pressure from without, so that he himself will not be injured. He 12:2. Jn ✓10:18. (4) He must have the absolute and inherent right thus to dispose of himself, so that no one else will be injured. Christ has the inherent right thus to dispose of himself, provided He is Creator and not creature. No creature, not even the highest and greatest of the sinless angels, has any right over his own life. It belongs to, and is therefore wholly at the disposal of, the Creator. When Christ died, obedient to death (Ph 2:8), though he voluntarily dismissed His spirit (Lk 23:46), no man taking his life from him, yet he did not thereby commit suicide, but the very opposite. For when one suicides, he thrusts himself unbidden into the presence of God, having no right to take his life because he cannot bring it back again. No creature could qualify under this fourth requirement, for none has the right to lay his life down. Moreover, if God should grant any sinless creature that right, and he should lay his life down by the permission of God, here then would be God giving a creature instead of Himself, and this would wholly remove Him, and therefore His love, from the transaction. For love is self-giving, not the giving of someone else. God could never show His love without giving Himself (Ge 22:8). If Christ is not actually God Himself, manifest in the flesh (1 Ti 3:16), He was but a creature, and as such, wholly unable to qualify at this point. This fourth requirement of a substitute thus demands the deity of Jesus Christ. (5) A substitute must be able fully to represent and answer for both God and man in his work as a substitute, so that neither party to the transaction will be injured. In meeting this fifth requirement, Christ is fully able to answer for and represent both God and man, if He IS both God and man. That Christ is both God and Man is shown by His ability to render wholly acceptable service to God as, on the one hand, He represents Him in maintaining His Law to the last jot and tittle in qualifying before Him on behalf of the sinless; and on the other hand, as He represents man in receiving the penalty of the Law on behalf of the sinful. For no one ought to answer for man’s sins but man; and no one can answer for them but God. Reason therefore demands the virgin birth of Jesus Christ. God must be his Father, else He cannot be God, just as a woman must be His mother, else He cannot be Man. Herein lies the philosophy of the incarnation. This is why the Mighty God tabernacled in the flesh. (6) His work as a substitute must be of such intrinsic moral worth as forever to satisfy the utmost demands of perfect righteousness and holiness, so that the principles of equity will not be injured. Christ’s work as substitute was of such intrinsic moral worth as to present to God a value sufficient to cover the moral needs, not only of his own holy Law in bringing it up out of dishonor, but also of the whole sinful world. Here once more reason demands the deity of the substitute, and the Scripture declares it. And such is what gave His work its worth; such worth did His work have that no injury could ever come to the eternal principles of equity and righteousness inherent in God’s holiness. Christ’s suffering was the perfect satisfaction given to the justice of God by the infinite merit of the holiness of the selfsame God (Ge 22:8), who Himself became the substitute to meet on man’s behalf His own just requirements. It was no third party (such as the Arians claim Michael the Archangel to be, 1 Th 4:16n) coming in between God and the sinner and changing His wrath to love. It was God Himself expressing His love, at infinite cost to Himself, in a way that gave full satisfaction both to the justice and the mercy which must be demanded by a holy and loving God. Christ did not merely offer a corresponding ransom for the sin of Adam (1 Ti 2:6n), for not only does his death atone for Adamic sin, but his blood has purged our sins (He 1:3), for Christ did not taste death for Adam only, but He “tasted death for every man” (He 2:9). This Christ could not do, were He merely man—even perfect man, for “None can by any means redeem his brother, nor give to God a ransom for him: (For the redemption of their soul is precious, and it ceaseth for ever:) That he should still live for ever, and not see corruption” (Ps 49:7-9). So at most, were Christ merely human, He could redeem but one man—and no more—if He himself were perfectly sinless. But as it is in truth, Christ is not merely a ransom for the sin of Adam, but He gave Himself “a ransom for all” (1 Ti 2:6), and this is absolute testimony for the deity of Christ: Only an infinite Savior could pay an infinite Sacrifice (adapted from J. E. Conant, No Salvation Without Substitution, Chapter 7, “The Nature of Substitution,” pp. 112-131). ver. 11. Ho 14:2. Jn *1:29. Ro 11:27. 1 J *3:5.`

[[Glossário do NTSK]]
