---
referencia: Mc 14.30
alias:
  - Mc 14:30
  - Ma 14:30
  - Ma 14.30
  - Mar 14:30
  - Mar 14.30
  - Marc 14:30
  - Marc 14.30
  - Marcos 14:30
  - Marcos 14.30
  - Mark 14:30
  - Mark 14.30
  - Mk 14:30
  - Mk 14.30
  - Mr 14:30
  - Mr 14.30
  - Mrk 14:30
  - Mrk 14.30

livro: Marcos
sigla: Mc
indice_livro: 41
capitulo: 14
versiculo: 30
KJV: And Jesus saith unto him, Verily I say unto thee, That this day, even in this night, before the cock crow twice, thou shalt deny me thrice. 
BKJ: E disse-lhe Jesus - Na verdade eu te digo - Que neste dia, ainda nesta noite, antes do galo cantar duas vezes, tu me negarás três vezes. 
testamento: Novo Testamento
canon_judaico: 
canon_cristao: Evangelhos
data_criacao: 2025-09-03
data_atualizacao: 
status: publicado
tags:
  - Bíblia
  - NovoTestamento
  - Evangelhos
  - Marcos

---


[[Bíblia]] ➜ [[Novo Testamento]] ➜  [[Evangelhos]] ➜ [[Marcos]] ➜ [[Mc 14]]
[[Mc 14.29|Voltar]] ❮ [[Mc 14.30]] ❯ [[Mc 14.31|Avançar]]

## 📜 **Texto do Versículo**

| Versão  | Texto                                                                                      |
| ------  | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| BKJ1611 | E disse-lhe Jesus: Na verdade eu te digo: Que neste dia, ainda nesta noite, antes do galo cantar duas vezes, tu me negarás três vezes.  |
| KJV     | And Jesus saith unto him, Verily I say unto thee, That this day, even in this night, before the cock crow twice, thou shalt deny me thrice.  |

## 🔗 **Referências Cruzadas (NTSK)**

`That. The conjunction hoti makes “this day” a part of what He said. We have the same construction in Lk 4:21; 19:9, but not in Mt 21:28; Lk 22:34; +23:43 (CB). this day. Ge 1:5, 8, 13, 19, 23. Lk ◐+23:43. before. ver. 66-72. Mt 26:69-75. Lk 22:54-62. Jn 18:17, 25-27. 1 Co 10:12. crow twice. Samuel J. Andrews notes “That Mark should say, ‘Before the cock crow twice thou shalt deny me thrice,’ while the other Evangelists say, ‘Before the cock crow thou shalt deny me thrice,’ makes no real discrepancy. The latter speak generally of the cock-crowing as a period of time within which the three denials should take place; Mark more accurately says, that during this period the cock should not crow twice ere the denials were made” (The Life of Our Lord, p. 496). Webster and Wilkinson note that the expression “second crowing” “shows the accuracy of S. Mark, on the supposition that he wrote for the use of Christians at Rome. The Western world generally reckoned two cockcrowings, one at about 3 a.m. (“cockcrowing,” Mk 13:35), the other at the dawn of day. This last was the only one reckoned in the East (Greek Testament, vol. 1, p. 221). Stuart Custer notes the fact that Matthew and Luke do not mention the cock’s crowing twice is simply a case of their providing general information, whereas Mark, as the disciple of Peter, having been told the particulars more precisely, gives the more detailed account, incidentally proving the independent testimony of the four evangelists (Does Inspiration Demand Inerrancy?, p. 107). John W. Haley remarks, “The four evangelists agree as to the number of the denials; but Matthew, Luke, and John represent them as occurring before the crowing of the cock; Mark as occurring before the cock should crow ‘twice.’ ” Haley further states, “Alford, Whitby, and many commentators note that cocks are accustomed to crow twice,—at or near midnight, and not far from day-break. Inasmuch as few persons hear the first crowing, the term generally denotes the second. All the evangelists refer to this latter; but Mark with greater precision designates it as the ‘second crowing.’ It seems probable that no one of the evangelists has mentioned all the denials by Peter during that sorrowful night. As the accusation was caught up, reiterated, and flung in his face by one and another of the servants and the guard, the terror-stricken man, in his agitation and in his anxiety to clear himself, would be likely to repeat the denial a considerable number of times, and in every variety of phrase. And, meanwhile, he would naturally be shifting about from place to place. This hypothesis accounts for the difficulty as to the persons who accosted him, and the places where he was when the denials were uttered” (An Examination of the Alleged Discrepancies of the Bible, pp. 424, 425). A careful reading of the four accounts lends support to the possibility that Jesus in Mk 14:30 predicted two series of three denials, three denials before each of two cockcrowings: (1) The first series of three. First denial: Jn 18:17, place, the door (thura) without; time, entering; the questioner, the porteress (thuroros). Second denial: Mt 26:70; Mk 14:68, place, the hall (aule); time, sitting; questioner, a certain maid. Lk 22:56-58 combines the same place and time, with the same maid, and another (heteros, masculine). Third denial: Mt 26:71, place, the gateway or porch (pulon). Time, an interval of an hour. Jn 18:25, 26 combines the same place and time, with another maid and bystanders, one of them being a relative of Malchus. A cock crew: Mk 14:68. Jn 18:27. (2) The second series of three. First denial: Mk 14:63, place, beneath the hall; time, shortly after; questioner, the maid again. Second denial: Mt 26:73; Mk 14:70, place, the gate (pulon); time, shortly after; questioners, the bystanders. Third denial: Lk 22:59, 60, place, the midst of the hall (aule, ver. 55); time, an hour after (ver. 59); questioner, a certain one (masculine). A cock crew: (Mt 26:74. Mk 14:72. Lk 22:61). We thus have a combined record in which there remains no difficulty, while each word retains its own true grammatical sense (Companion Bible, Appendix 160, pp. 183, 184. Compare Johnston M. Cheney, The Life of Christ in Stereo, Appendix III, pp. 222-224). George W. DeHoff cites Bishop Horne as stating “Pertness and ignorance may ask a question in three lines which it will cost learning and ingenuity thirty pages to answer; and when this is done, the same question shall be triumphantly asked again the next year, as if nothing had ever been written on the subject” (Alleged Bible Contradictions Explained, p. 39). DeHoff provides in his initial chapters and introduction valuable discussion of the sources, causes, value and proper manner of solving alleged discrepancies, noting “Frequently several possible solutions of a difficulty are given. It is not claimed that these are the only possible solutions, nor, indeed, the correct ones” (p. 10). Clearly, that an alleged difficulty can be reasonably explained by reverent scholarship is sufficient to remove the difficulty. One overly magnified (by infidelity) alleged source of difficulties is the multiplicity of various readings in the original manuscripts of the Bible. DeHoff cites Dr. Bently, who said “The real text of the sacred writers does not now (since the originals have been so long lost) lie in any single manuscript or edition, but is dispersed in them all. ’Tis competently exact indeed, even in the worst manuscript now extant; nor is one article of faith or moral precept either perverted or lost in them, choose as awkwardly as you can, choose the worst by design, out of the whole lump of readings” and “Make your thirty thousand (variations) as many more, if numbers of copies can ever reach that sum; all the better to a knowing and serious reader, who is thereby more richly furnished to select what he sees genuine. But even put them into the hands of a knave or a fool, and yet with the most sinistrous and absurd choice, he shall not extinguish the light of any one chapter, nor disguise Christianity but that every feature of it will be the same” (pp. 48, 49). ver. 68, 72. Mt 26:34, 75. Lk 22:34, 60. Jn ◐✓13:38. 18:27.`

[[Glossário do NTSK]]
