---
referencia: Jz 11.39
alias:
  - Jz 11:39
  - Jdg 11:39
  - Jdg 11.39
  - Jdgs 11:39
  - Jdgs 11.39
  - Jg 11:39
  - Jg 11.39
  - Judg 11:39
  - Judg 11.39
  - Judges 11:39
  - Judges 11.39
  - Jui 11:39
  - Jui 11.39
  - Juiz 11:39
  - Juiz 11.39
  - Juízes 11:39
  - Juízes 11.39

livro: Juízes
sigla: Jz
indice_livro: 7
capitulo: 11
versiculo: 39
KJV: And it came to pass at the end of two months, that she returned unto her father, who did with her according to his vow which he had vowed - and she knew no man. And it was a custom in Israel, 
BKJ: E sucedeu que, ao final de dois meses, ela retornou ao seu pai, que fez com ela segundo o seu voto que havia feito; e ela não conheceu homem algum. E tornou-se um costume em Israel, 
testamento: Antigo Testamento
canon_judaico: Nevi'im
canon_cristao: Livros Históricos
data_criacao: 2025-09-03
data_atualizacao: 
status: publicado
tags:
  - Bíblia
  - AntigoTestamento
  - LivrosHistóricos
  - Juízes

---


[[Bíblia]] ➜ [[Antigo Testamento]] ➜ [[Nevi'im]] / [[Livros Históricos]] ➜ [[Juízes]] ➜ [[Jz 11]]
[[Jz 11.38|Voltar]] ❮ [[Jz 11.39]] ❯ [[Jz 11.40|Avançar]]

## 📜 **Texto do Versículo**

| Versão  | Texto                                                                                      |
| ------  | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| BKJ1611 | E sucedeu que, ao final de dois meses, ela retornou ao seu pai, que fez com ela segundo o seu voto que havia feito; e ela não conheceu homem algum. E tornou-se um costume em Israel,  |
| KJV     | And it came to pass at the end of two months, that she returned unto her father, who did with her according to his vow which he had vowed: and she knew no man. And it was a custom in Israel,  |

## 🔗 **Referências Cruzadas (NTSK)**

`did with. That Jephthah did not sacrifice his daughter, but consecrated her to the service of God in the tabernacle, in a state of celibacy, may be argued as evident from the following considerations: (1) Human sacrifices were ever an abomination to Jehovah, of which Jephthah could not be ignorant; and consequently he would neither have made such a vow, nor carried it into execution. (2) We are expressly told (ver. 29) that Jephthah was under the influence of the Spirit of God, which would effectually prevent him from embruing his hands in the blood of his own child. (3) He had it in his power to redeem his daughter (Le 27:4); and surely his only child must have been of more value than thirty shekels. (4) Besides, who was to perform the horrid rite? Not Jephthah himself, who was no priest, and in whom it would have been most unnatural and inhuman; and the priests would certainly have dissuaded him from it. (5) The sacred historian informs us that “she bewailed her virginity,” that “she knew no man,” and that the Israelite women went yearly to comfort or lament with her, ver. 40mg. It may be argued to the contrary, however, that: (1) Though human sacrifices are an abomination, yet this seems to have been a time of spiritual darkness (Jg 10:6), and though they seem now to have repented and forsaken their idols (Jg 10:16), there seems to have been retained part of the old leaven, for though they were not to offer human sacrifices to Molech, as they had done, yet here it appears they did so to the Lord. Perhaps such misconception of the will of God led to a change in the priesthood (1 S 2:35, 36). (2) Though Jephthah was under the influence of the Spirit of God, yet with him, as in our own day, it is possible to grieve the Holy Spirit by the intrusion of our own fleshly will, expressed here by the rashness of his vow, despite such provisions that God has made in his Word to discourage such vows (Nu 30:2n). The Spirit was not given to Jephthah to impart to him spiritual wisdom and discernment, but to empower him to be a man of valor (ver. 1), and make possible his victory over the Ammonites. (3) Though Jephthah had it in his power to redeem his daughter by the gracious provision of the law (Le 27:4), yet here again he may have been influenced by a misinterpretation and misapplication of Le 27:28, 29, as explained above, ver. 31n, just as there are those today who misinterpret such a passage as Mt 5:29. (4) As to who would perform the rite, if the priest was under the same misconception as Jephthah, the question is answered. (5) That the sacred historian informs us that she bewailed her virginity is no argument against the specific provisions of the vow in verse 31; rather, it would have been inappropriate to bewail her death since she so generously and cheerfully accepted, because attended and occasioned by the public good, and her father’s honor and happiness, ver. 36; the mention that “she knew no man” is plainly distinguished from the execution of her father’s vow, which is here mentioned before; and this is added, not as an explication of the vow, but as an aggravating circumstance. Furthermore, there is no example in all the Scripture of any woman that was obliged to perpetual virginity by any vow of her own, much less by the vow of her parents; the express words of the vow (ver. 31) mention nothing of her virginity, but only that she should “surely be the Lord’s,” i.e. devoted to the service of the Lord, which might be without any obligation to perpetual virginity; for even Samuel, who was as fully devoted to the Lord by his parents as she could be, 1 S 1:11; and Samson, who was devoted not only by his parents but by God himself, and that in the highest degree, even to be a perpetual Nazarite, Jg 13:5, 7; yet were not prohibited marriage. Therefore, if she were not offered up as a burnt offering, but was only consecrated to God, there was no occasion to bewail her virginity, which, for anything that appears, she was not tied to (adapted chiefly from Matthew Poole). ver. 31. Le ✓27:28, 29n. Dt 12:31. Is 66:3. to his vow. 1 S 1:11, 22, 24, 28. 2:18. knew no man. Ge +4:1. 19:8. custom. or, ordinance. Le 18:30. 2 Ch 35:25. Je 10:3mg. 32:11.`

[[Glossário do NTSK]]
