---
referencia: 2Rs 22.8
alias:
  - 2Rs 22:8
  - 2 K 22:8
  - 2 K 22.8
  - 2 Kgs 22:8
  - 2 Kgs 22.8
  - 2 Ki 22:8
  - 2 Ki 22.8
  - 2 Kings 22:8
  - 2 Kings 22.8
  - 2 Reis 22:8
  - 2 Reis 22.8
  - 2 Res 22:8
  - 2 Res 22.8
  - 2 Ri 22:8
  - 2 Ri 22.8
  - 2K 22:8
  - 2K 22.8
  - 2Kgs 22:8
  - 2Kgs 22.8
  - 2Ki 22:8
  - 2Ki 22.8
  - 2Kin 22:8
  - 2Kin 22.8
  - 2R 22:8
  - 2R 22.8
  - 2Re 22:8
  - 2Re 22.8
  - 2Rei 22:8
  - 2Rei 22.8
  - 2Res 22:8
  - 2Res 22.8
  - 2nd Kgs 22:8
  - 2nd Kgs 22.8
  - 2nd Kings 22:8
  - 2nd Kings 22.8
  - 2o Reis 22:8
  - 2o Reis 22.8
  - 2o Res 22:8
  - 2o Res 22.8
  - II Kgs 22:8
  - II Kgs 22.8
  - II Ki 22:8
  - II Ki 22.8
  - II Re 22:8
  - II Re 22.8
  - II Res 22:8
  - II Res 22.8
  - Second Kgs 22:8
  - Second Kgs 22.8
  - Second Kings 22:8
  - Second Kings 22.8
  - Segundo Reis 22:8
  - Segundo Reis 22.8
  - Segundo Res 22:8
  - Segundo Res 22.8

livro: 2 Reis
sigla: 2Rs
indice_livro: 12
capitulo: 22
versiculo: 8
KJV: And Hilkiah the high priest said unto Shaphan the scribe, I have found the book of the law in the house of the LORD. And Hilkiah gave the book to Shaphan, and he read it. 
BKJ: E Hilquias, o sumo sacerdote, disse a Safã, o escriba - Encontrei o livro da lei na casa do SENHOR. E Hilquias deu o livro a Safã, e ele o leu. 
testamento: Antigo Testamento
canon_judaico: Nevi'im
canon_cristao: Livros Históricos
data_criacao: 2025-09-03
data_atualizacao: 
status: publicado
tags:
  - Bíblia
  - AntigoTestamento
  - LivrosHistóricos
  - 2Reis

---


[[Bíblia]] ➜ [[Antigo Testamento]] ➜ [[Nevi'im]] / [[Livros Históricos]] ➜ [[2 Reis]] ➜ [[2Rs 22]]
[[2Rs 22.7|Voltar]] ❮ [[2Rs 22.8]] ❯ [[2Rs 22.9|Avançar]]

## 📜 **Texto do Versículo**

| Versão  | Texto                                                                                      |
| ------  | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| BKJ1611 | E Hilquias, o sumo sacerdote, disse a Safã, o escriba: Encontrei o livro da lei na casa do SENHOR. E Hilquias deu o livro a Safã, e ele o leu.  |
| KJV     | And Hilkiah the high priest said unto Shaphan the scribe, I have found the book of the law in the house of the LORD. And Hilkiah gave the book to Shaphan, and he read it.  |

## 🔗 **Referências Cruzadas (NTSK)**

`I have found. This certainly was a genuine copy of the divine law, and probably the autograph of Moses, as it is said, in the parallel place of Chronicles (2 Ch *34:14mg), to be the book of the law of the Lord by Moses. It is not probable that this was the only copy of the law in the land, or that Josiah had never before seen the book of Moses; but the fact seems to be, that this was the original of the covenant renewed by Moses in the plains of Moab, and now being unexpectedly found, its antiquity, the occasion of its being made, the present circumstances of the people, the imperfect state in which the reformation was as yet, after all that had been done, would all concur to produce the effect here mentioned on the mind of the pious Josiah. Scott further suggests that it is highly probable, that copies of the law were at that time very scarce, through the idolatry of the former reigns, and the lamentable ungodliness of the people. It might also be reasonably conjectured, that the priests had made abstracts from it, of the outlines of their worship, without specifying particulars, or inserting the solemn sanctions annexed to each of them. This would spare them the trouble of transcribing, or studying, or reading to the people, the whole book; and, as these abstracts would come into common use, few people would look any further. But had not a universal traditional recollection of the law, and in general of its contents, prevailed in the nation; how could the book, when found, have obtained proper and implicit credit as the word of God by Moses? In the dark ages this was precisely the case: the liturgies and rituals contained a few selected portions of Scripture; and not only were the people kept in the dark as to the entire contents of the Bible, but few even of the priests had ever read it through, and numbers of these had never seen a complete copy of it. The same naturally becomes the case still, (notwithstanding the multiplication of copies of the Bible by the art of printing, and its public allowance in the vulgar tongue, and the commendable pains by pious persons to disperse them) whenever any set of men become strenuous for one part of religion in preference to the rest. They, who are the oracles of each party, insert in their writings those portions of Scripture, which are supposed to inculcate the doctrines for which they contend; but keep out of sight, perhaps without design, those passages which as strongly declare, what they undervalue, overlook, or are prejudiced against. And these writings form the religion of the zealous friends of that party, while the rest of Scripture is comparatively neglected or forgotten. Indeed we all are disposed to have favorite passages of Scripture, to which we are more attentive than to the rest; so that without great care we shall be led into this error.—And may it not be hinted with propriety, that some text-books, which were well designed, are yet capable of a dangerous abuse? I mean those books, which give a text of Scripture for every day, with pious observations upon it. Many read these in family worship, instead of the Bible itself; and others, it is likely, do the same in their closets: but numbers are thus undesignedly led to substitute a part for the whole; the abstract with an exposition, instead of the book of the law: whereas “all Scripture is given by inspiration of God, and is profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness; that the man of God may be perfect, throughly furnished unto all good works” (2 Ti *3:16). The proper use of such books is to suggest subjects for pious meditations and ejaculations, in the intervals of conversation and business.—The scarcity of the written word did not excuse Israel’s degeneracy and idolatry, because it was the effect of it; “the people loved to have it so” (Je 5:31); but the abundance of Bibles, with which this land is favored, will exceedingly aggravate the guilt of our national impiety, infidelity, and licentiousness: for what greater contempt of God can we show, than to refuse to read his word, when put into our hands; or, reading it, to refuse to believe and obey it? 2 K 14:6n. Dt 31:24-26. 2 Ch 34:14, 15, etc. Je 2:8n.`

[[Glossário do NTSK]]
