---
referencia: Lv 23.2
alias:
  - Lv 23:2
  - Le 23:2
  - Le 23.2
  - Lev 23:2
  - Lev 23.2
  - Leviticus 23:2
  - Leviticus 23.2
  - Levítico 23:2
  - Levítico 23.2

livro: Levítico
sigla: Lv
indice_livro: 3
capitulo: 23
versiculo: 2
KJV: Speak unto the children of Israel, and say unto them, Concerning the feasts of the LORD, which ye shall proclaim to be holy convocations, even these are my feasts. 
BKJ: Fala aos filhos de Israel, e dize-lhes - A respeito das solenidades do SENHOR, proclamareis que serão santas convocações; estas são as minhas solenidades. 
testamento: Antigo Testamento
canon_judaico: Torá
canon_cristao: Pentateuco
data_criacao: 2025-09-03
data_atualizacao: 
status: publicado
tags:
  - Bíblia
  - AntigoTestamento
  - Pentateuco
  - Levítico

---


[[Bíblia]] ➜ [[Antigo Testamento]] ➜ [[Torá]] / [[Pentateuco]] ➜ [[Levítico]] ➜ [[Lv 23]]
[[Lv 23.1|Voltar]] ❮ [[Lv 23.2]] ❯ [[Lv 23.3|Avançar]]

## 📜 **Texto do Versículo**

| Versão  | Texto                                                                                      |
| ------  | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| BKJ1611 | Fala aos filhos de Israel, e dize-lhes: A respeito das solenidades do SENHOR, proclamareis que serão santas convocações; estas são as minhas solenidades.  |
| KJV     | Speak unto the children of Israel, and say unto them, Concerning the feasts of the LORD, which ye shall proclaim to be holy convocations, even these are my feasts.  |

## 🔗 **Referências Cruzadas (NTSK)**

`the feasts of the Lord. ver. 4, 37. Ex 23:14-17. 32:5. 1 S 15:22. Is 1:14. 33:20. La 1:4. Ho 2:11. Na 1:15. Jn ◐2:13. 5:1. 7:2. Col 2:16. or, appointed seasons, as Ge 1:14. Ge +17:21 (✣S#4150h). God appointed several festivals among the Jews. The Passover was celebrated on the 14th, or rather 15th day of the first month in the ecclesiastical year, which was the seventh of the civil year, and lasted seven days. The Pentecost was celebrated on the fiftieth day after the passover, in memory of the law’s being given to Moses on Mount Sinai, fifty days, or seven weeks after the departure out of Egypt. The word is derived from the Greek word Pentakosta, which signifies the fiftieth. The Hebrews call it the feast of weeks, Ex 34:22. The feast of trumpets, celebrated on the first day of the civil year, when a trumpet was sounded, to proclaim its commencement, which was in the month Tisri, answering to our September, Le 23:24, 25. The new moons, or first days of every month, were, in some sort, a consequence of the feast of trumpets. God ordained that, by giving him the firstfruits of every month they should acknowledge him as the Lord of all their time, and own his providence, by which all times and seasons are ordered. The feast of expiation or atonement was kept on the tenth day of Tisri or September: the Hebrews call it Kippur, i.e. pardon, or expiation, because it was instituted for the expiation of all their sins. The feast of tents or tabernacles was so called, because the Israelites kept it under green tents or arbors, in memory of their dwelling in tents in their passage through the wilderness. It was celebrated on the 15th day of Tisri, and continued eight days: the first and last days were most solemn. Besides the feasts mentioned by Moses, we find the feast of lots, or Purim, which was celebrated among the Jews of Shushan on the 14th of Adar, which answers to our February. The feast of the dedication of the temple, or rather, of the restoration of the temple, which had been profaned by Antiochus Epiphanes, which is thought to be the feast mentioned in the gospel, Jn 10:22, was celebrated in the winter. feasts. Moadim, properly means assemblies, convened at an appointed time and place. ver. 4, 37. Ex 23:14-17. Is 1:13, 14. 33:20. La 1:4. Ho 2:11. Na 1:15. Jn 5:1. Col 2:1. proclaim. Ex 32:5. Nu 10:2, 3, 10. 2 K 10:20. 2 Ch 30:5. Ps 81:3. Jl 1:14. 2:15. Jon 3:5-9. convocations. Ge *49:10. Ex 12:16. He 12:23. Re *7:9. Young notes “lit. (1) a calling together, (2) those called together, (3) the place where they are called together. ‘my appointed seasons,’ and therefore not of human origin” (Concise Critical Comments).`

[[Glossário do NTSK]]
