---
referencia: Jr 33.21
alias:
  - Jr 33:21
  - Je 33:21
  - Je 33.21
  - Jer 33:21
  - Jer 33.21
  - Jeremiah 33:21
  - Jeremiah 33.21
  - Jeremias 33:21
  - Jeremias 33.21

livro: Jeremias
sigla: Jr
indice_livro: 24
capitulo: 33
versiculo: 21
KJV: Then may also my covenant be broken with David my servant, that he should not have a son to reign upon his throne; and with the Levites the priests, my ministers. 
BKJ: então também poderá ser quebrado o meu pacto com o meu servo Davi, para que ele não tenha um filho que reine sobre o seu trono, como os sacerdotes levitas, meus ministros. 
testamento: Antigo Testamento
canon_judaico: Nevi'im
canon_cristao: Profetas Maiores
data_criacao: 2025-09-03
data_atualizacao: 
status: publicado
tags:
  - Bíblia
  - AntigoTestamento
  - ProfetasMaiores
  - Jeremias

---


[[Bíblia]] ➜ [[Antigo Testamento]] ➜ [[Nevi'im]] / [[Profetas Maiores]] ➜ [[Bíblia/Antigo Testamento/Profetas Maiores/Jeremias/Jeremias]] ➜ [[Jr 33]]
[[Jr 33.20|Voltar]] ❮ [[Jr 33.21]] ❯ [[Jr 33.22|Avançar]]

## 📜 **Texto do Versículo**

| Versão  | Texto                                                                                      |
| ------  | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| BKJ1611 | então também poderá ser quebrado o meu pacto com o meu servo Davi, para que ele não tenha um filho que reine sobre o seu trono, como os sacerdotes levitas, meus ministros.  |
| KJV     | Then may also my covenant be broken with David my servant, that he should not have a son to reign upon his throne; and with the Levites the priests, my ministers.  |

## 🔗 **Referências Cruzadas (NTSK)**

`may. 2 S ✓23:5. 2 Ch 7:18. *21:7. Ps ✓89:34-36. +*132:11, 12, 17. Is +*55:3. Mt 24:35. Lk 1:69, 70. covenant. Ge +9:16. with David. The Davidic covenant was wholly unconditional. It is this aspect of the Davidic covenant that constitutes it the “sure mercies of David.” Many interpreters have failed to understand that while every covenant has conditions set upon it, yet this covenant is unconditional as to its ultimate fulfillment, though conditional with respect to any one individual, other than David himself. So in the New Testament, many promises which are unconditional to the body of believers, the elect, or the church as a whole, may yet be conditional with respect to individual believers within that body (Ep 4:30, note that “ye” is plural, thus postulated of the elect as a whole, not of every individual separately, for an occasional individual believer may become an unbeliever through moral [1 Co +*6:9, 10. He +*10:26] or doctrinal [1 Co +*15:2. 2 J 8-11] apostasy, and so forfeit the benefit promised [He 10:39]: Lk +*8:13. 1 Co +*15:2. He +*3:12-14. 2 P +*1:10. *2:20, 21). 2 S ✓7:10-16. Ps 89:3, 4, 20-37. +*132:11. Is +✓55:3. He =6:17, 18. that he. From the destruction of Jerusalem to the present time, a period of nearly eighteen hundred years, the Jews have had neither a king nor any form of government whatever; nor has the office of high priest, or priest of any kind offering sacrifice, been exercised among them during the same period. Hence this must be understood of the spiritual David, Jesus Christ, both the King and High Priest of his church, “the Israel of God” (Ga 6:16), in whom the covenant of royalty with David and his seed, and that of priesthood with Aaron and his seed, have received their full accomplishment; and all the sacrifices of that dispensation were superseded by his “one oblation of himself,” the efficacy of which remains for ever. Scott suggests, “Probably, a more literal accomplishment will hereafter be witnessed: but I do not presume to state particularly the events which may be expected.” Taking into account the Parallel Passages (ver. 20, 25, 26. Je 31:35-37. Is +*54:9, 10) which so strongly affirm the literal fulfillment of these covenant promises to natural Israel, and understanding their relationship to the Abrahamic Covenant, which has never been literally fulfilled (Je +7:7. Is +26:15. Ac +*7:5. He *11:13, 39), we must understand the fulfillment to be yet future, during the millennium, when the Jews are literally and fully restored to their land, Abraham (Mt +*8:11) and other patriarchs resurrected to experience the fulfillment of the covenanted kingdom in that age. Thus a spiritual fulfillment to the Church intimated in the note above must not be permitted to displace, abrogate, or supersede the covenanted fulfillment to literal restored Israel. See the related notes (Jsh 21:43n. 1 K ✓4:21n. Is 60:21n. Ac 7:5n). Is +*9:6, 7. Da 7:14. Lk 1:32, 33. and with. See on ver. 18. Re 5:10.`

[[Glossário do NTSK]]
