---
referencia: Jó 41.7
alias:
  - Jó 41:7
  - Jb 41:7
  - Jb 41.7
  - Job 41:7
  - Job 41.7

livro: Jó
sigla: Jó
indice_livro: 18
capitulo: 41
versiculo: 7
KJV: Canst thou fill his skin with barbed irons? or his head with fish spears? 
BKJ: Podes tu encher sua pele com ganchos, ou a sua cabeça com arpões de pescadores? 
testamento: Antigo Testamento
canon_judaico: Ketuvim
canon_cristao: Livros Poéticos
data_criacao: 2025-09-03
data_atualizacao: 
status: publicado
tags:
  - Bíblia
  - AntigoTestamento
  - LivrosPoéticos
  - Jó

---


[[Bíblia]] ➜ [[Antigo Testamento]] ➜ [[Ketuvim]] / [[Livros Poéticos]] ➜ [[Jó]] ➜ [[Jó 41]]
[[Jó 41.6|Voltar]] ❮ [[Jó 41.7]] ❯ [[Jó 41.8|Avançar]]

## 📜 **Texto do Versículo**

| Versão  | Texto                                                                                      |
| ------  | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| BKJ1611 | Podes tu encher sua pele com ganchos, ou a sua cabeça com arpões de pescadores?  |
| KJV     | Canst thou fill his skin with barbed irons? or his head with fish spears?  |

## 🔗 **Referências Cruzadas (NTSK)**

`Canst. The leviathan, described here, has been solidly proved by Bochart to denote the crocodile, and the description suits no other species of amphibious animals. It is a species of lizard with a two-edged tail, large oblong head, small but vivacious eyes, short legs, and triangular feet, the fore ones having four, and the hinder ones five toes, armed with strong, sharp claws. Its length is usually about twenty feet, and its circumference about five feet; it has, in proportion to its size, the largest mouth of all monsters; moves both its jaws equally, the upper of which is armed with not less than forty, and the under with thirty-eight sharp, strong, and massy teeth; its voice is a loud, hollow growling, of the most terrific description; and is furnished with a coat of mail, so scaly and callous as to resist the force of a musket ball in every part, except under the belly. It is a natural inhabitant of the Nile and other African and Asiatic rivers; is of enormous voracity and strength as well as fleetness in swimming; attacks mankind and the largest animals with the most daring impetuosity; and when taken by means of a powerful net, will often overturn the boats that surround it. Nothing that it once seizes can escape, and shaking its prey to pieces, it swallows without mastication. fish. ver. 26-29.`

[[Glossário do NTSK]]
