---
referencia: Dt 23.1
alias:
  - Dt 23:1
  - De 23:1
  - De 23.1
  - Deut 23:1
  - Deut 23.1
  - Deuteronomy 23:1
  - Deuteronomy 23.1
  - Deuteronômio 23:1
  - Deuteronômio 23.1

livro: Deuteronômio
sigla: Dt
indice_livro: 5
capitulo: 23
versiculo: 1
KJV: He that is wounded in the stones, or hath his privy member cut off, shall not enter into the congregation of the LORD. 
BKJ: Aquele que for ferido nas pedras, ou tiver seu membro cortado, não entrará na congregação do SENHOR. 
testamento: Antigo Testamento
canon_judaico: Torá
canon_cristao: Pentateuco
data_criacao: 2025-09-03
data_atualizacao: 
status: publicado
tags:
  - Bíblia
  - AntigoTestamento
  - Pentateuco
  - Deuteronômio

---


[[Bíblia]] ➜ [[Antigo Testamento]] ➜ [[Torá]] / [[Pentateuco]] ➜ [[Deuteronômio]] ➜ [[Dt 23]]
[[Dt 22.30|Voltar]] ❮ [[Dt 23.1]] ❯ [[Dt 23.2|Avançar]]

## 📜 **Texto do Versículo**

| Versão  | Texto                                                                                      |
| ------  | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| BKJ1611 | Aquele que for ferido nas pedras, ou tiver seu membro cortado, não entrará na congregação do SENHOR.  |
| KJV     | He that is wounded in the stones, or hath his privy member cut off, shall not enter into the congregation of the LORD.  |

## 🔗 **Referências Cruzadas (NTSK)**

`wounded. ❅S#1795h, only here. lit. wounded by bruising. See ❅S#1794h, Ps +10:10. Le 21:17-21. 22:22-24. 1 K 20:37. SS 5:7. Ga 3:28. Young’s Literal Translation adds here “or bruised.” Ps 10:10mg. 38:8. 44:19. 51:*8, ✓17. stones. Jb 40:17. member. ❅S#8212h, only here. Not mentioned elsewhere, from a root signifying to pour out. Ho ◐2:10 (❅S#5040h). cut. Le *22:24. 1 S 5:4. shall not enter. It is evident that this law was not meant to exclude mutilated Israelites, either from the common benefits of civil society, or any essential religious advantages; but merely to lay them under a disgraceful distinction. This would tend to discourage parents from thus mutilating their children; a practice which was exceedingly common in those ages and countries. To this they might often be induced by the custom which prevailed, of employing eunuchs in the houses of the great and the courts of princes: so that they often rose to the highest posts of honor and authority (2 K 20:17, 18. Da 1:3-7). Some expositors therefore consider the phrase, “shall not enter into the congregation of the Lord,” as meaning, that they should be incapable of bearing any office in that government, which was placed over the people of God, who must thus enter a protest against this custom, and deliver selfish parents from this temptation. But others think, that the persons intended might not enter the inner court of the sanctuary, or join in celebrating the sacred feasts, as in full communion with the congregation of the Lord; but must be contented to worship without, as uncircumcised Gentiles were allowed to do. Indeed it is probable that the exclusion related to both these particulars: for, as the blemished priests might not officiate at the altar (Le 21:17, 23), it is reasonable to conclude, that the blemished Israelite must neither enter the inner court of the sanctuary, nor fill up any public office in the congregation; in order that the people and ordinances of God might be preserved in purity and honor. shall not. ver. 2, 3, 8. Ne 13:1-3. Ps ◐65:4. Is 56:3, 4. La 1:10. Mt 19:12. Ac ◐*8:27, 38, 39. 2 Co 13:9. congregation of the Lord. This term signifies here not the body of the people, as it usually does, but the society of the elders or rulers of the people, who, as they represent the whole congregation, and act in their name, and for their service and good, so they are sometimes called by the name of the congregation, as Nu 35:12, 24, 25. Jsh 20:6, 9. 1 K *8:1-3, 5. 1 Ch 13:1, 2, 4. 29:1, 10, 20. 28:1. 29:6. Ps 82:1.`

[[Glossário do NTSK]]
