---
referencia: 2Ts 2.7
alias:
  - 2Ts 2:7
  - 2 T 2:7
  - 2 T 2.7
  - 2 Tess 2:7
  - 2 Tess 2.7
  - 2 Tessalonicenses 2:7
  - 2 Tessalonicenses 2.7
  - 2 Th 2:7
  - 2 Th 2.7
  - 2 Thes 2:7
  - 2 Thes 2.7
  - 2 Thess 2:7
  - 2 Thess 2.7
  - 2 Thessalonians 2:7
  - 2 Thessalonians 2.7
  - 2T 2:7
  - 2T 2.7
  - 2Tes 2:7
  - 2Tes 2.7
  - 2Tess 2:7
  - 2Tess 2.7
  - 2Tessalonicenses 2:7
  - 2Tessalonicenses 2.7
  - 2Th 2:7
  - 2Th 2.7
  - 2Thes 2:7
  - 2Thes 2.7
  - 2Thess 2:7
  - 2Thess 2.7
  - 2Thessalonians 2:7
  - 2Thessalonians 2.7
  - 2nd Thess 2:7
  - 2nd Thess 2.7
  - 2nd Thessalonians 2:7
  - 2nd Thessalonians 2.7
  - 2o Tess 2:7
  - 2o Tess 2.7
  - 2o Tessalonicenses 2:7
  - 2o Tessalonicenses 2.7
  - II T 2:7
  - II T 2.7
  - II Tes 2:7
  - II Tes 2.7
  - II Tessalonicenses 2:7
  - II Tessalonicenses 2.7
  - II Th 2:7
  - II Th 2.7
  - II Thes 2:7
  - II Thes 2.7
  - II Thess 2:7
  - II Thess 2.7
  - II Thessalonians 2:7
  - II Thessalonians 2.7
  - IIi Tess 2:7
  - IIi Tess 2.7
  - Second Thess 2:7
  - Second Thess 2.7
  - Second Thessalonians 2:7
  - Second Thessalonians 2.7
  - Segundo Tess 2:7
  - Segundo Tess 2.7
  - Segundo Tessalonicenses 2:7
  - Segundo Tessalonicenses 2.7

livro: 2 Tessalonicenses
sigla: 2Ts
indice_livro: 53
capitulo: 2
versiculo: 7
KJV: For the mystery of iniquity doth already work - only he who now letteth will let, until he be taken out of the way. 
BKJ: Porque o mistério da iniquidade já opera; somente há um que, agora, resiste até que do caminho seja tirado. 
testamento: Novo Testamento
canon_judaico: 
canon_cristao: Epístolas Paulinas
data_criacao: 2025-09-03
data_atualizacao: 
status: publicado
tags:
  - Bíblia
  - NovoTestamento
  - EpístolasPaulinas
  - 2Tessalonicenses

---


[[Bíblia]] ➜ [[Novo Testamento]] ➜  [[Epístolas Paulinas]] ➜ [[2 Tessalonicenses]] ➜ [[2Ts 2]]
[[2Ts 2.6|Voltar]] ❮ [[2Ts 2.7]] ❯ [[2Ts 2.8|Avançar]]

## 📜 **Texto do Versículo**

| Versão  | Texto                                                                                      |
| ------  | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| BKJ1611 | Porque o mistério da iniquidade já opera; somente há um que, agora, resiste até que do caminho seja tirado.  |
| KJV     | For the mystery of iniquity doth already work: only he who now letteth will let, until he be taken out of the way.  |

## 🔗 **Referências Cruzadas (NTSK)**

`the mystery. Ro +*16:25n. 1 Ti 3:16. Re *17:5, 7. doth. Ac 20:29. Col 2:18-23. 1 Ti 4:1. 2 Ti 2:17, 18. 1 J 2:18. 4:3. only he who. ver. 6. Is 5:4, 5. Ro 1:24, 28. he be taken. ƒ63A1. Figure of speech Ellipsis (Absolute: of the Nominative), whereby the subject of the verb must be supplied from the nature of the subject alone, or from what is elsewhere expressed, Ge +14:20. See 1 Co 15:24n. Hogg and Vine note the nominative of ginomai is not expressed in the original (Thessalonians, p. 261). Just who or what will be taken out of the way has puzzled interpreters. The most usually suggested options are (1) human government, (2) the church, (3) the Holy Spirit, (4) God. Several considerations, faithfully applied, will narrow down the possibilities to the correct choice. First, who or whatever this was or is was already known, already existing. Second, whatever is the correct choice must correspond to identifiable prophecy in the Old Testament. Third, Paul is intentionally being obscure here, probably to protect himself and the Christians he is addressing from adverse political persecution (Jn 11:48. Ac 17:7). Similar reticence to protect the parties concerned is reflected in the fact that the synoptic gospels do not mention the resurrection of Lazarus; only John records this event, presumably long after any possible harm might occur to Lazarus himself. Paul uses similar obscurity at 1 Co 15:24-28. This factor of obscurity immediately rules out the possibility that the reference is to God, the Holy Spirit, or the Church, for if any of these were what he meant, he could have unhesitatingly named any of them without risk. Grammatical considerations also remove God, the Church, or the Holy Spirit from consideration. In this passage two grammatical genders are used of the restrainer: neuter gender, and masculine gender. If the Holy Spirit were the intended reference, Paul would have consistently used the neuter gender. Since the Holy Spirit is omnipresent (Ps 139:7, 8), and does not merely indwell believers, the removal of the saints at the Rapture does not constitute his removal. His removal is not suggested here or elsewhere in Scripture. As many are to be saved during the Tribulation (Re 7:14. 15:2-4. 20:4), his presence is essential (Ro 8:9). If the Church were Paul’s intended reference, Paul would have consistently used the feminine gender, for in Greek the word “church” is feminine in its grammatical gender. Note that this does not mean that the church is feminine in any sense, or that it is thereby called a woman, for Greek grammatical gender has no necessary connection with natural gender (see note on Jn 16:13n). The reference is not to the Church, for if this were the case, the Church must be present during the first half of the Tribulation, until the Antichrist is revealed, yet this cannot be, for the Church is raptured (1 Th 4:17n) before the Tribulation begins. But the masculine and neuter gender does fit the future government (neuter gender) and its king (masculine gender). This leaves human government as the only remaining choice of those given. But the reference is not to human government in general, for prophecy nowhere states that such government will cease just prior to the revelation of the Antichrist. Rather, Paul has a specific reference to biblical prophecy in mind, Da ✓7:8, 24, where Daniel speaks of the Antichrist defeating three kings which until that time restrained his power. That Paul’s reference is to prophecy in the book of Daniel is confirmed by his reference to Daniel in ver. 4, and his statement in ver. 5, which indicates that when he was present with the Thessalonians he had been teaching them about Bible prophecy from the book of Daniel. out of the way. ƒ108H3, Mt +13:49.`

[[Glossário do NTSK]]
