---
referencia: 2Pe 1.20
alias:
  - 2Pe 1:20
  - 2 P 1:20
  - 2 P 1.20
  - 2 Pd 1:20
  - 2 Pd 1.20
  - 2 Pe 1:20
  - 2 Pe 1.20
  - 2 Ped 1:20
  - 2 Ped 1.20
  - 2 Pedro 1:20
  - 2 Pedro 1.20
  - 2 Pet 1:20
  - 2 Pet 1.20
  - 2 Peter 1:20
  - 2 Peter 1.20
  - 2 Pt 1:20
  - 2 Pt 1.20
  - 2P 1:20
  - 2P 1.20
  - 2Pd 1:20
  - 2Pd 1.20
  - 2Ped 1:20
  - 2Ped 1.20
  - 2Pedro 1:20
  - 2Pedro 1.20
  - 2Pet 1:20
  - 2Pet 1.20
  - 2Peter 1:20
  - 2Peter 1.20
  - 2Pt 1:20
  - 2Pt 1.20
  - 2nd Peter 1:20
  - 2nd Peter 1.20
  - 2o Pedro 1:20
  - 2o Pedro 1.20
  - II Pd 1:20
  - II Pd 1.20
  - II Pe 1:20
  - II Pe 1.20
  - II Ped 1:20
  - II Ped 1.20
  - II Pedro 1:20
  - II Pedro 1.20
  - II Pet 1:20
  - II Pet 1.20
  - II Peter 1:20
  - II Peter 1.20
  - II Pt 1:20
  - II Pt 1.20
  - Second Peter 1:20
  - Second Peter 1.20
  - Segundo Pedro 1:20
  - Segundo Pedro 1.20

livro: 2 Pedro
sigla: 2Pe
indice_livro: 61
capitulo: 1
versiculo: 20
KJV: Knowing this first, that no prophecy of the scripture is of any private interpretation. 
BKJ: Sabendo isto primeiramente - Que nenhuma profecia da escritura é de particular interpretação. 
testamento: Novo Testamento
canon_judaico: 
canon_cristao: Epístolas Gerais
data_criacao: 2025-09-03
data_atualizacao: 
status: publicado
tags:
  - Bíblia
  - NovoTestamento
  - EpístolasGerais
  - 2Pedro

---


[[Bíblia]] ➜ [[Novo Testamento]] ➜  [[Epístolas Gerais]] ➜ [[2 Pedro]] ➜ [[2Pe 1]]
[[2Pe 1.19|Voltar]] ❮ [[2Pe 1.20]] ❯ [[2Pe 1.21|Avançar]]

## 📜 **Texto do Versículo**

| Versão  | Texto                                                                                      |
| ------  | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| BKJ1611 | Sabendo isto primeiramente: Que nenhuma profecia da escritura é de particular interpretação.  |
| KJV     | Knowing this first, that no prophecy of the scripture is of any private interpretation.  |

## 🔗 **Referências Cruzadas (NTSK)**

`Knowing. 2 P 3:3. Ro 6:6. 13:11. 1 Ti 1:9. Ja 1:3. that. Ro 12:6. of the scripture. Ro 9:17. 1 P 2:6. private. Rather, its own, or less likely, their own, understanding the text to mean that the writers of Scripture did not merely pen their own opinion, but were divinely inspired by the Holy Spirit. Understanding “its own” fits the immediate context of taking heed to the more sure word of prophecy, and the manner of taking heed is to interpret the individual prophecies of Scripture in the light of every other prophecy which bears upon the same theme. “Private” is an unfortunate rendering of the Greek word idios (S#2398g), a word which occurs 113 times in the Greek New Testament, most often rendered “his own” (48 times) and “their own” (13 times), but nowhere else rendered “private,” though rendered by the word “privately” 8 times. This rendering has been used to attack the Biblical doctrine of the perspicuity of Scripture (Is +*8:20n) and to deny the duty of each individual believer to exercise the right of private judgment to determine for himself the correctness of a proposed interpretation of Scripture (Je +*23:28n). While Scripture elsewhere teaches the individual to maintain fellowship with other believers (He 10:25), to “hear the church” (Mt 18:17), to “hold the traditions which ye have been taught” (2 Th 2:15), and to “obey them that have the rule over you” (He 13:17), yet he must do so only insofar as such teachers are faithful to the written Word of God. The final authority in spiritual matters is never an organization or church, but the written Word of God as found in the Bible, correctly interpreted. The Bible warns that followers of false teachers will share in their reward (Ezk +*14:10n). The final obligation remains for each individual to judge truth for himself (Ro 14:12). This, then, is the major justification for the right of private judgment, for God holds each of us individually and directly accountable to him and his Word. We cannot pass off our responsibility to others by saying “I simply believed what my church taught me” (Is +*8:20n. Ezk 14:10n). “Private” is better rendered “its own,” so that we then read “no Scripture is of its own interpretation.” The meaning is that every statement in Scripture must be understood in the light of what the rest of Scripture teaches which bears upon the same theme. Of absolute importance to the correct interpretation of Scripture is to make a full and proper induction of all related passages, and develop from them an interpretation which accounts for and agrees with the whole. This is the very opposite of the deductive approach, which comes to the Bible with a pre-determined belief (whether a creedal statement, a system of doctrine or philosophy, any “ism”—whether Calvinism, Arminianism, dispensationalism, amillennialism, Russellism, liberalism, humanism, scientism, etc.) which already has decided what the Bible can or must teach, then searches its pages for supporting “proof texts.” Such an approach is grievously in error (Mk ✓12:24), and can be detected by its tendency to ignore, suppress, explain away, or circumvent those texts which do not “fit” the system. Adherents of deductive systems are in danger of wresting Scripture to their own destruction (2 P 3:16), and handling Scripture deceitfully (2 Co 4:2). Those who adhere to a deductive approach to Scripture are marked by an inability to come to the Bible with an open mind, ready to adjust their belief to what is newly learned. In fact, such persons are unable to freely study Scripture and grow in their knowledge, for they have adopted a closed system of belief, which can never admit to anything new to be learned, or admit a former mistake in understanding, the correction of which is based upon additional light received by a fresh study of the Word of God. Certainly such an attitude toward Scripture makes it a closed book, and is the very opposite of that humility required for the reception of spiritual truth (Ps 25:9. 119:18). Jn *16:13. interpretation. Gr. epilusis, ❅S#1955g, only here, from ❅S#1956g, epiluo, Mk 4:34 (expounded); Ac 19:39 (determined). Vine defines epilusis to mean “to loose, solve, explain, denotes a solution, explanation, lit., a release. ‘(of private) interpretation;’ i.e., the writers of Scripture did not put their own construction upon the ‘God-breathed’ words they wrote” (Expository Dictionary, vol. 2, p. 268). An understanding of the principles of the correct interpretation of Scripture is of supreme importance. Formally known as the science of biblical hermeneutics, the correct application of such principles is essential to arrive at the correct interpretation of Scripture. Most wrong interpretations of Scripture will be found to violate one or more of the following ten general rules of interpretation: (1) Interpret the words and sentences of an author literally unless such an interpretation results in a contradiction, absurdity, or nonsense. Be very careful not to label as nonsense what might merely be strange or contrary to your own personal point of view or frame of reference. Sometimes the immediate context will indicate a non-literal interpretation must be understood (“trees clapped their hands,” Is 55:12). In such cases watch for the literal truth or meaning which is being figuratively expressed. (2) Do not attribute a meaning to a text that would be foreign to the knowledge or understanding of the author or the original audience, or give a meaning which would be outside the purpose of the original author (Thus there are no trains or flying saucers in the Bible). (3) Do not interpret one statement in the Bible in a way which makes it contradict another part. All the parts must agree without contradictions. Authors write to be understood, not to confuse their audience. Sometimes an author may write an intended ambiguity. Sometimes our own perception of the truth, or our knowledge of the cultural context which produced a document, is incomplete, and our own deficiency of knowledge may lead us to find ambiguity, paradox, and contradiction where there is none. An author, particularly when treating of philosophical and religious subjects, may intentionally introduce paradox (determinism versus free will). (4) A correct interpretation takes account of all the material in the text, and all related material in other texts of the Bible. You cannot legitimately pick and choose separate statements and combine them arbitrarily (The Bible says, Judas went and hanged himself; go and do thou likewise; what thou doest, do quickly). You cannot leave out material which, if included, would require or necessitate a change in the interpretation. Whenever an interpretation involves the comparison of two or more subjects, the interpretation must take into account not only the similarities but also the differences which may exist. (5) Read what comes before and after the verse you are interpreting. A correct interpretation always fits into the scope, meaning, and purpose of the surrounding passage or context. A text out of context is a pretext. (6) An interpretation must be in harmony with the grammar of the sentences involved, and in harmony with the meanings of the words which make up the sentences. (7) Always interpret obscure, difficult texts in the light of other passages on the same topic which are clear in meaning. (8) A correct and authoritative interpretation must be based upon what the text itself says, not upon what someone else claims it says. (9) All that is required to establish an interpretation as correct is evidence (which is in harmony with these rules) from the text sufficient to convince an adequately informed, neutral, unbiased person. (10) When there are two differing interpretations of a passage, if the interpretations are contradictory, they cannot both be correct. One or the other interpretation must be wrong, or they may both be wrong, but they cannot both be right. A correct interpretation must comply with the rules of interpretation; an incorrect interpretation will always be found not to comply with the rules.`

[[Glossário do NTSK]]
