---
referencia: 2Pe 3.13
alias:
  - 2Pe 3:13
  - 2 P 3:13
  - 2 P 3.13
  - 2 Pd 3:13
  - 2 Pd 3.13
  - 2 Pe 3:13
  - 2 Pe 3.13
  - 2 Ped 3:13
  - 2 Ped 3.13
  - 2 Pedro 3:13
  - 2 Pedro 3.13
  - 2 Pet 3:13
  - 2 Pet 3.13
  - 2 Peter 3:13
  - 2 Peter 3.13
  - 2 Pt 3:13
  - 2 Pt 3.13
  - 2P 3:13
  - 2P 3.13
  - 2Pd 3:13
  - 2Pd 3.13
  - 2Ped 3:13
  - 2Ped 3.13
  - 2Pedro 3:13
  - 2Pedro 3.13
  - 2Pet 3:13
  - 2Pet 3.13
  - 2Peter 3:13
  - 2Peter 3.13
  - 2Pt 3:13
  - 2Pt 3.13
  - 2nd Peter 3:13
  - 2nd Peter 3.13
  - 2o Pedro 3:13
  - 2o Pedro 3.13
  - II Pd 3:13
  - II Pd 3.13
  - II Pe 3:13
  - II Pe 3.13
  - II Ped 3:13
  - II Ped 3.13
  - II Pedro 3:13
  - II Pedro 3.13
  - II Pet 3:13
  - II Pet 3.13
  - II Peter 3:13
  - II Peter 3.13
  - II Pt 3:13
  - II Pt 3.13
  - Second Peter 3:13
  - Second Peter 3.13
  - Segundo Pedro 3:13
  - Segundo Pedro 3.13

livro: 2 Pedro
sigla: 2Pe
indice_livro: 61
capitulo: 3
versiculo: 13
KJV: Nevertheless we, according to his promise, look for new heavens and a new earth, wherein dwelleth righteousness. 
BKJ: Mas nós, de acordo com a sua promessa, aguardamos novos céus e uma nova terra, onde habita a justiça. 
testamento: Novo Testamento
canon_judaico: 
canon_cristao: Epístolas Gerais
data_criacao: 2025-09-03
data_atualizacao: 
status: publicado
tags:
  - Bíblia
  - NovoTestamento
  - EpístolasGerais
  - 2Pedro

---


[[Bíblia]] ➜ [[Novo Testamento]] ➜  [[Epístolas Gerais]] ➜ [[2 Pedro]] ➜ [[2Pe 3]]
[[2Pe 3.12|Voltar]] ❮ [[2Pe 3.13]] ❯ [[2Pe 3.14|Avançar]]

## 📜 **Texto do Versículo**

| Versão  | Texto                                                                                      |
| ------  | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| BKJ1611 | Mas nós, de acordo com a sua promessa, aguardamos novos céus e uma nova terra, onde habita a justiça.  |
| KJV     | Nevertheless we, according to his promise, look for new heavens and a new earth, wherein dwelleth righteousness.  |

## 🔗 **Referências Cruzadas (NTSK)**

`according to his promise. Peter specifically states that these predictions are “according to his promise.” To properly understand the predictions, we must carefully consider the promise to which he refers. The only passages of the Old Testament which refer to the creation of a new heavens and earth preceded by a destruction by fire are found in Isaiah 65:17–19 and 66:16, 17, *22. Interpreters differ widely in their understanding of these predictions. Some advocate a post-millennial conflagration which totally destroys the earth, supposing that after the Millennium God will create a new heaven and a new earth, which will exist forever in the eternal ages which follow the Millennium. This view is radically defective in a number of points. First, the conflagration is placed by Peter and by Isaiah prior to the millennial reign of Christ, for the wicked and the scoffers continue right down to this time of destruction, the purpose of which (2 P 3:7) is stated to be the destruction and perdition of ungodly men. Such a purpose is incongruous to the conditions established by Christ during the Millennium. Second, Scripture declares that this earth will last forever, so it will never be totally destroyed (Ec +*1:4). Third, Christ’s kingdom is established upon the earth, the saints are to inherit the earth, and this kingdom and this inheritance are to last forever, and will never be destroyed (Da +*7:14. Mt +*5:5. Ep +*1:11n. He *9:15. 1 P *1:4n. Re *11:15). Therefore, to suggest that this earth will be destroyed at the end of the Millennium is to contradict the oath-bound covenants and promises of God (Is +*55:3). The end of the Millennium does not mark the end of Christ’s kingdom (1 Co +*15:24n), but marks the duration of the binding of Satan and of the time before the resurrection of the rest of the dead (Re 20:3, 5). The time of the conflagration is therefore established as premillennial. The time of this fire corresponds to the the harvest, when the tares shall be burned up (Mt 13:30, 39, 40), but this harvest (Re 14:14-20) occurs under the seventh trumpet preceding the Millennial age (Peters, Theocratic Kingdom, vol. 2, p. 516). The extent of the conflagration must not be understood to be such as to make this present earth uninhabitable, or to totally destroy all animate life on earth. Although Peter’s language, if taken apart from other predictions in Scripture, may appear to be universal in its scope, yet it must be remembered that universal language in Scripture is often used where a limitation is to be understood (Ge +*7:19n. 1 K ✓18:10), and in this instance this single passage in 2 Peter must not be taken in a sense to contradict the rest of the prophecies in the Word of God, especially when Peter expressly refers these predictions to well-known Scripture promises, promises which do not necessitate a universal and unlimited destruction. Other predictions describe a change and a shaking, but not absolute destruction for this period (Ps 102:25-27. He 1:10-12. +*12:26). The fact that eternal generations of human beings in the flesh (Ps 72:5. 89:4, 29, 36, 37. 102:28. 145:13. 146:10. Is 34:17. 51:8. *59:21. 60:15. 65:23. 66:22. Je 33:22. Ezk *37:25. Lk 1:32, 33) will live on this earth after the Second Coming of Christ proves that not all people will be destroyed. Those who argue that “flesh and blood cannot inherit the kingdom” (1 Co 15:50n) forget that these natural generations are subjects of the kingdom, not inheritors, for only the resurrected saints in glorified bodies are co-heirs with Christ in His eternal kingdom (Ro +*8:17). Is 51:6. ✓65:17-19. ✓66:22. Ac +*3:21. Ro 8:21. 1 P 1:11, 13. Re ✓21:1, 27. look for. Lk +*21:36. He +*9:28. Re 11:15-18. new. Gr. kainos, S#2537g, Mk +2:22n. The Greek word denotes a renewal or restoration of something previously existing (Peters, Theocratic Kingdom, vol. 2, p. 499). heavens and. Perhaps because the creation of a new heavens and earth is mentioned in Re 21:1, a text which occurs after the prediction of the Millennium (Re 20:3-7) and the Great White Throne Judgment (Re 20:11-15), many interpreters make the new heaven and earth postmillennial. Since all concede the new heavens and earth are preceded by the conflagration mentioned by Peter, interpreters argue that the conflagration must be postmillennial. However, the three references (Is 65:17 and 66:22. 2 P 3:13. Re 21:1) are to the same new heavens and earth, to one event, not two events separated by a millennium, for the “first” not “second” heaven and earth were passed away (Re 21:1). The references to the conflagration by Peter were proven to be premillennial. The new heavens and new earth must also be premillennial, since they immediately follow upon the conflagration. The fact that the new heavens and earth are mentioned in Revelation after a passage describing the Millennium and Great White Throne Judgment is no sure proof that the new heavens and earth are postmillennial, because it is very common in Scripture for prophecies and even histories to be out of chronological sequence (See ƒ107. Hysterologia, Ge +10:5). The predictions of a new heaven and earth in Isaiah are seen in context to be premillennial, for the millennial blessedness immediately follows upon their creation (Is 65:17-25). wherein dwelleth. 2 P 1:11. Ps *69:34-36. Is 32:16. +*60:21. Ac +*3:19-21. Re *21:27. *22:14, 15. righteousness. Ps 96:11-13. ✓98:4-9. Is 26:9.`

[[Glossário do NTSK]]
