---
referencia: 2Pe 1.16
alias:
  - 2Pe 1:16
  - 2 P 1:16
  - 2 P 1.16
  - 2 Pd 1:16
  - 2 Pd 1.16
  - 2 Pe 1:16
  - 2 Pe 1.16
  - 2 Ped 1:16
  - 2 Ped 1.16
  - 2 Pedro 1:16
  - 2 Pedro 1.16
  - 2 Pet 1:16
  - 2 Pet 1.16
  - 2 Peter 1:16
  - 2 Peter 1.16
  - 2 Pt 1:16
  - 2 Pt 1.16
  - 2P 1:16
  - 2P 1.16
  - 2Pd 1:16
  - 2Pd 1.16
  - 2Ped 1:16
  - 2Ped 1.16
  - 2Pedro 1:16
  - 2Pedro 1.16
  - 2Pet 1:16
  - 2Pet 1.16
  - 2Peter 1:16
  - 2Peter 1.16
  - 2Pt 1:16
  - 2Pt 1.16
  - 2nd Peter 1:16
  - 2nd Peter 1.16
  - 2o Pedro 1:16
  - 2o Pedro 1.16
  - II Pd 1:16
  - II Pd 1.16
  - II Pe 1:16
  - II Pe 1.16
  - II Ped 1:16
  - II Ped 1.16
  - II Pedro 1:16
  - II Pedro 1.16
  - II Pet 1:16
  - II Pet 1.16
  - II Peter 1:16
  - II Peter 1.16
  - II Pt 1:16
  - II Pt 1.16
  - Second Peter 1:16
  - Second Peter 1.16
  - Segundo Pedro 1:16
  - Segundo Pedro 1.16

livro: 2 Pedro
sigla: 2Pe
indice_livro: 61
capitulo: 1
versiculo: 16
KJV: For we have not followed cunningly devised fables, when we made known unto you the power and coming of our Lord Jesus Christ, but were eyewitnesses of his majesty. 
BKJ: Porque não seguimos astuciosamente fábulas imaginárias, ao vos anunciar o poder e a vinda de nosso SENHOR Jesus Cristo, porém fomos testemunhas oculares de sua majestade. 
testamento: Novo Testamento
canon_judaico: 
canon_cristao: Epístolas Gerais
data_criacao: 2025-09-03
data_atualizacao: 
status: publicado
tags:
  - Bíblia
  - NovoTestamento
  - EpístolasGerais
  - 2Pedro

---


[[Bíblia]] ➜ [[Novo Testamento]] ➜  [[Epístolas Gerais]] ➜ [[2 Pedro]] ➜ [[2Pe 1]]
[[2Pe 1.15|Voltar]] ❮ [[2Pe 1.16]] ❯ [[2Pe 1.17|Avançar]]

## 📜 **Texto do Versículo**

| Versão  | Texto                                                                                      |
| ------  | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| BKJ1611 | Porque não seguimos astuciosamente fábulas imaginárias, ao vos anunciar o poder e a vinda de nosso SENHOR Jesus Cristo, porém fomos testemunhas oculares de sua majestade.  |
| KJV     | For we have not followed cunningly devised fables, when we made known unto you the power and coming of our Lord Jesus Christ, but were eyewitnesses of his majesty.  |

## 🔗 **Referências Cruzadas (NTSK)**

`we have. 2 P *3:3, 4. Jb *36:4. 1 Co 1:17, 23. *2:1, 4. 2 Co *2:17. +✓4:2. 12:16, 17. Ep +*4:14. 2 Th 2:9. 1 Ti *1:4. *4:7. Ti 1:14. cunningly devised. This verse contains one of the most significant texts for apologetics to be found in the Word of God. Christian faith is not a blind leap into the dark, but is established upon firm evidence, for unlike other world religions, Christianity “rests on definite, historical facts and events—facts and historical events of such nature that if they really took place, the religion is true, and established by so direct, so strong and so great a variety of independent and converging proofs that it has been said again and again by great lawyers that they cannot but be regarded as proved under the strictest rules of evidence used in the highest American and English courts” (Irwin H. Linton, A Lawyer Examines the Bible, p. 16). Linton states that he had never found a single unbelieving lawyer or layman who had made a careful, lawyer-like, two-sided investigation of the claims of the Bible and its Christ. He was never able to find a single unbeliever who had read carefully even one of the old classics on the Christian Evidences. Professor G. W. Wright has said, “All history is fragmentary. Each particular fact is the center of an infinite complex of circumstances. No man has intelligence enough to insert a suppositious fact into circumstances not belonging to it, and make it fit exactly. This only Infinite Intelligence could do. A successful forgery, therefore, is impossible if only we have a sufficient number of the original circumstances with which to compare it” (cited in Fred John Meldau, 57 Reasons, p. 37). Linton cites Simon Greenleaf to the same effect: “Every event which actually transpires has its appropriate relation and place in the vast complication of circumstances of which the affairs of men consist: it owes its origin to the events which have preceded it, is intimately connected with all others which occur at the same time and place, and often with those of remote regions, and in its turn gives birth to numberless others which succeed. In this almost inconceivable contexture and seeming discord there is perfect harmony; and while the fact which really happened tallies exactly with every other contemporaneous incident related to it in the remotest degree, it is not possible for the wit of man to invent a story which, if closely compared with the actual occurrences of the same time and place, may not be shown to be false” (Linton, pp. 53, 54). “In a number of concurrent testimonies, where there has been no previous concert (utterly negatived in the case of the Gospels by the apparent but completely reconciled discrepancies between them. Linton) there is a probability distinct from that which may be termed the sum of the probabilities resulting from the testimony of the witnesses; a probability which would remain even though the witnesses were of such character as to merit no faith at all. This probability arises from the concurrence itself. That such a concurrence should spring from chance is as one to infinity; that is, in other words, morally impossible. If, therefore, concert be excluded, there remains no cause but the reality of the fact” (Linton, citing George Campbell against Hume, p. 55). “Now, in historical researches, a reconciled inconsistency becomes a positive argument. First, because an impostor generally guards against the appearance of inconsistency; and secondly, because when apparent inconsistencies are found, it is seldom anything but truth renders them capable of reconciliation. The existence of the difficulty proves the want or absence of that caution which usually accompanies the consciousness of fraud; and the solution proves that it is not the collusion of fortuitous propositions which we have to deal with, but that a thread of truth winds through the whole, which preserves every circumstance in its place” (Linton, p. 88, citing Paley. See further related notes on undesigned coincidences listed at Ac 12:12n). We now come to an argument for the credibility of the facts contained in Scripture which has never been answered and never can be. Infidels have repeatedly been challenged to answer it but they have never even made the attempt. It is the argument of Leslie in his Short and Easy Method with the Deists. This argument rests solely upon the peculiarity of Christian evidence, already mentioned, by which the truth of the religion is indissolubly connected with certain matters of fact which could originally be judged of by the senses, and also upon the fact that there exist in the Church certain ordinances commemorative of those facts. Thus the truth of our religion seems to be embodied in institutions that now exist, and in observances that pass before our eyes. The object of Leslie is to show, from the nature of the case—for here we make very little reference to written testimony—that the matters of fact stated could not have been received at the time unless they were true, and that the observances could never have been originated except in connection with the facts. In showing this, he lays down four rules, and asserts that any matter of fact in which these four rules meet must be true, and challenges the world to show any instance of any supposed matter of fact, thus authenticated, that has ever been shown to be false. His four rules are these: (1) That the matter of fact be such that men’s outward senses, their eyes and ears, may be judges of it. (2) That it be done publicly, in the face of the world. (3) That not only public monuments be kept up in memory of it, but some outward actions be performed. (4) That such monuments, and such actions, or observances, be instituted, and do commence from the time that the matter of fact was done. The first two rules. The first two rules make it impossible for any such matter of fact to be imposed upon men at the time, because every man’s eyes, and ears, and senses, would contradict it. For example, if any man should affirm that all the inhabitants of this city yesterday, or last year, walked to Governor’s Island and returned on dry ground, while the water was divided and stood in heaps on each side of them, it would be impossible that he should be believed, because every man, woman, and child would know better. It would be one of those things respecting which the unlearned and the young could judge as well as the learned and more experienced. Equally impossible is it that the children of Israel, of that generation, should have believed that they passed through the Red Sea, or went out and gathered manna every morning, or drank water from the rock, or that the law was given with the terror and solemnity described in the Bible, if these things did not happen. Not less impossible is it that the five thousand should have believed they were fed by Christ; or that the relatives of Lazarus, and the Jews who knew him, should have believed that he was raised from the dead, or the parents and friends of the man born blind, that he was made to see; or that the multitudes before whom he healed the lame, and the sick of every description, should have believed that these events took place, if they did not. These miracles are of such a nature that, unless they were really wrought, it is impossible they should have been believed at the time. Leslie further says: “Therefore it only remains that such matter of fact might have been invented some time after, when the men of that generation wherein the thing was said to be done are all past and gone; and the credulity of after ages might be imposed upon to believe that things were done in former ages which were not.” The last two rules. And for this the last two rules secure us as much as the first two rules in the former case; for, whenever such a matter of fact came to be invented, if not only monuments were said to remain of it, but likewise that public actions and observances were constantly used ever since the matter of fact was said to be done, the deceit must be detected by no such monuments appearing, and by the experience of every man, woman, and child, who must know that no such actions or observances were ever used by them. For example, suppose I should now invent a story of such a thing done a thousand years ago; I might perhaps get some to believe it; but if I say that not only such a thing was done, but that, from that day to this, every man, at the age of twelve years, had a joint of his little finger cut off; and that every man in the nation did lack a joint of such a finger; and that this institution was said to be part of the matter of fact done so many years ago, and vouched as a proof and confirmation of it, and as having descended without interruption, and been constantly practiced, in memory of such a fact, all along from the time that such matter of fact was done;—I say it is impossible I should be believed in such case, because everyone could contradict me as to the mark of cutting off the joint of the finger; and that, being a part of my original matter of fact, must demonstrate the whole to be false. Application to the books of Moses. The case here put is not stronger than that either of the books of Moses, or of the New Testament. For, at whatever time it might have been attempted to impose the books of Moses upon a subsequent age, it would have been impossible, because they contain the laws and civil and ecclesiastical regulations of the Jews, which the books affirm were adopted at the time of Moses, and were constantly in force from that time; and because they contain an account of the passover, which they assert to have been observed in consequence of a particular fact. If, then, a book had been put forth at a particular time, stating that the Jews had obeyed certain very peculiar laws, and had a certain priesthood, and had observed the Passover from the time of Moses, while they had never heard of these laws, or of this priesthood, or of a Passover, it is impossible the book should have been received. Nothing could have saved such a book from scorn or utter neglect. Application to the New Testament. But what the Levitical law, and the priesthood, and the passover were to the Jews, baptism, and the Christian ministry, and the Lord’s Supper are to Christians. It is a part of the records of the Gospels that these were instituted by Christ; that they were commanded by Him to be continued till the end of time, and were actually continued and observed at the time when the Gospels purport to have been written—that is, before the destruction of Jerusalem. But if these books were fictions invented after the time of Christ, there would have been at that time no Christian baptism, nor order of Christian ministers, nor sacrament of the supper, thus derived from His appointment; and that, alone, would have demonstrated the whole to be false. Our books suppose these institutions to exist; they give an account of them; and it is impossible they should have been received where they did not exist. It is, therefore, impossible that these books should have been received at the time the facts are said to have taken place, or at any subsequent time, unless those facts really did take place. We now regard the sacrament of the supper as an essential part of the religion; it was so regarded by our fathers; nor can we conceive that it should have been otherwise up to the very time when the religion was founded. Thus we have a visible sign and pledge of the truth of our religion, handed down, independently of written testimony, from age to age; and the force of which age has no tendency to diminish. Strength of the evidences. Perhaps we do not sufficiently dwell on the great strength of which the Christian evidences derive from this proof, or notice the contrast it makes between the evidence for the facts of Christianity and those of ordinary history. Not only is it impossible to point out any statement of fact, substantiated by these four marks, that can be shown to be false, but none of the best authenticated facts of ancient history have them all. The Fourth of July, as observed by us, may illustrate the effects of such commemorative ordinances as guarding against false historical accounts. For any man to have invented the New Testament after the time of Christ, and to have attempted to cause it to be received, would have been as if a man had written an account of the revolution, and of the celebration of this day from the first, when no revolution was ever heard of, and no one had ever celebrated the Fourth of July. Nor, when such a festival was once established, would it be possible to introduce any account of its origin essentially different from the true one. But the case of the Christian religion is much stronger; because we have several different institutions which must have sprung up at its origin; because baptism and the Lord’s Supper have occurred so much more frequently; and because the latter has always been considered the chief rite of a religion to which men have been more attached than to liberty or to life. Credible because no others. But again: our books are credible because there are no others. That such a movement as Christianity must have been, involving the origin of so many new institutions, and such ecclesiastical and social changes should have originated at such a time and in such a place, and that no written documents should have been drawn forth by it, is incredible. And that the true account should have perished, leaving not a single vestige behind it, and that false ones, and such as these, should have been substituted, is impossible. Of the origin of such institutions we should expect some account. That of our books is adequate and satisfactory. There is nothing contradictory to it, for even spurious writings confirm the truth of our books, and there is no vestige of any other (Linton, pp. 161-164, citing Mark Hopkins, who is citing Leslie). fables. 1 Ti +1:4. the power. Mt *28:18. Mk *9:1. Jn *17:2. Ac *3:12, 13, 16. Ro *1:4. 1 Co +2:4. *5:4. Ph 3:21. and. ƒ93A, Ge +1:26. coming. Gr. parousia, Mt +24:3n. 2 P 3:4, 12. Ml *3:2. *4:5. Mt *16:28. +*24:3n, 27. Ac +*3:19-21. 1 Co *1:7. 1 Th +2:19. 2 Th *1:7-10. Ju *14. Re +*1:7. were eyewitnesses. Simon Greenleaf wrote of the apostles, “It was impossible that they could have persisted in affirming the truths they have narrated had not Jesus actually risen from the dead, and had they not known this fact as certainly as they knew any other fact” (Wilbur Smith, Have You Considered Him, p. 19, citing Simon Greenleaf, The Testimony of the Evangelists Examined by the Rules of Evidence Administered in Courts of Justice, pp. 28-31). Jsh 24:17. Pr 1:20. Mt ✓17:1-5. 26:55. Mk 9:2. Lk 9:28-32. Jn *1:14. Ac 26:26. He 2:9. 1 J ✓1:1-3. *4:14. majesty. Lk 9:43. Jn 1:14. +*17:5. Ep *1:20-22.`

[[Glossário do NTSK]]
