---
referencia: Ap 21.1
alias:
  - Ap 21:1
  - Apo 21:1
  - Apo 21.1
  - Apoc 21:1
  - Apoc 21.1
  - Apocal 21:1
  - Apocal 21.1
  - Apocalipse 21:1
  - Apocalipse 21.1
  - Re 21:1
  - Re 21.1
  - Rev 21:1
  - Rev 21.1
  - Revelation 21:1
  - Revelation 21.1
  - The Revelation 21:1
  - The Revelation 21.1

livro: Apocalipse
sigla: Ap
indice_livro: 66
capitulo: 21
versiculo: 1
KJV: And I saw a new heaven and a new earth - for the first heaven and the first earth were passed away; and there was no more sea. 
BKJ: E eu vi um novo céu, e uma nova terra; porque o primeiro céu e a primeira terra haviam passado, e não havia mais mar. 
testamento: Novo Testamento
canon_judaico: 
canon_cristao: Apocalipse
data_criacao: 2025-09-03
data_atualizacao: 
status: publicado
tags:
  - Bíblia
  - NovoTestamento
  - Apocalipse
  - Apocalipse

---


[[Bíblia]] ➜ [[Novo Testamento]] ➜  [[Apocalipse]] ➜ [[Apocalipse]] ➜ [[Ap 21]]
[[Ap 20.15|Voltar]] ❮ [[Ap 21.1]] ❯ [[Ap 21.2|Avançar]]

## 📜 **Texto do Versículo**

| Versão  | Texto                                                                                      |
| ------  | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| BKJ1611 | E eu vi um novo céu, e uma nova terra; porque o primeiro céu e a primeira terra haviam passado, e não havia mais mar.  |
| KJV     | And I saw a new heaven and a new earth: for the first heaven and the first earth were passed away; and there was no more sea.  |

## 🔗 **Referências Cruzadas (NTSK)**

`a new heaven. ver. 5. Dt ✓11:21. Is ✓65:▶17-19. ✓▶66:22. Ep 1:10. 2 P ✓3:13n. for the first. Most interpreters understand the new heaven and new earth to be postmillennial, as this description succeeds the account of the last judgment. It is necessary, however, in interpreting prophecy to take into account all that the rest of the prophets have written. If this is done, it will be seen that the new heaven and new earth are distinctly revealed to be premillennial in the only other passages which contain the prediction (Is 65:17-19. 66:22. 2 P ✓3:13n). Every student of prophecy knows that there are numerous instances of prophecies given out of their chronological sequence. The order of events must be determined by a careful comparison of all the related Scripture. Many times in Scripture it will be noticed that a succeeding prophecy is really a further explanation, elaboration, and expansion of what has been mentioned on the same topic previously (this, in fact, is the fundamental feature which must be understood to discover the meaning of prophecy, and makes the study of its details by the comparison of Scripture, and a thorough induction of all related evidence, absolutely essential). Just because a prediction is mentioned in a context subsequent to another prediction, does not necessitate a corresponding chronological relationship between them. This feature, common to prophecy and history (ƒ107. Hysterologia, Ge +10:5), is to be seen in the opening chapters of Genesis, where the account in chapter two is an expansion of what was more briefly given in chapter one. As to this feature being a negation of the evidential value of predictive prophecy, as Scott maintains at this place in his commentary, one need only consider the fact that the many predictions regarding the first advent of Christ are nowhere stated in chronological order, but their evidential value is not diminished by this circumstance. If the contrary view is insisted upon, holding that the first heaven and earth are passed away in a great conflagration which destroys all natural life, and all spiritual life continues in the new heaven and earth after the Millennium, then such a view contradicts the oath bound covenants and the promises of God that Christ will reign personally on this earth for ever upon the throne of David, for the earthly kingdom of God ruled by Christ is to last for ever, not merely one thousand years, and this earth, not some other, is to be our eternal inheritance. See related notes and references (Mt +*5:5. Ac +*7:5. Ro +*4:13. 1 Co 15:24n, 25n, 50n. Ep +*1:11n. 2 P ✓3:13n). See on Re 20:11. Ge 1:1. Ps *102:25, 26. passed away. Mt 5:18. 24:34, 35. Mk 13:30, 31. Lk 16:17. 21:33. and there. Re 13:1. Ps +*65:7. Is 27:1. 57:20. Da 7:3.`

[[Glossário do NTSK]]
