---
referencia: Ap 7.4
alias:
  - Ap 7:4
  - Apo 7:4
  - Apo 7.4
  - Apoc 7:4
  - Apoc 7.4
  - Apocal 7:4
  - Apocal 7.4
  - Apocalipse 7:4
  - Apocalipse 7.4
  - Re 7:4
  - Re 7.4
  - Rev 7:4
  - Rev 7.4
  - Revelation 7:4
  - Revelation 7.4
  - The Revelation 7:4
  - The Revelation 7.4

livro: Apocalipse
sigla: Ap
indice_livro: 66
capitulo: 7
versiculo: 4
KJV: And I heard the number of them which were sealed - and there were sealed an hundred and forty and four thousand of all the tribes of the children of Israel. 
BKJ: E eu ouvi o número daqueles que foram selados; e foram selados cento e quarenta e quatro mil de todas as tribos dos filhos de Israel. 
testamento: Novo Testamento
canon_judaico: 
canon_cristao: Apocalipse
data_criacao: 2025-09-03
data_atualizacao: 
status: publicado
tags:
  - Bíblia
  - NovoTestamento
  - Apocalipse
  - Apocalipse

---


[[Bíblia]] ➜ [[Novo Testamento]] ➜  [[Apocalipse]] ➜ [[Apocalipse]] ➜ [[Ap 7]]
[[Ap 7.3|Voltar]] ❮ [[Ap 7.4]] ❯ [[Ap 7.5|Avançar]]

## 📜 **Texto do Versículo**

| Versão  | Texto                                                                                      |
| ------  | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| BKJ1611 | E eu ouvi o número daqueles que foram selados; e foram selados cento e quarenta e quatro mil de todas as tribos dos filhos de Israel.  |
| KJV     | And I heard the number of them which were sealed: and there were sealed an hundred and forty and four thousand of all the tribes of the children of Israel.  |

## 🔗 **Referências Cruzadas (NTSK)**

`I heard. Re 9:16. the number. Ps +*68:11. Is +*27:6. +*66:19. of them. Dt +*4:30. an hundred and forty and four thousand. What is the significance of the number? Reginald T. Naish, in his volume Spiritual Arithmetic, suggests that since this number contains the square of twelve, it “is naturally associated with that number, which is perfect government. It emphasizes it, and expresses spiritually the fact that perfect government of the life is only possible through the agency of the Holy Spirit. Hence it may well be called, the number of the Spirit-guided life.” In Ge 1:2, the Hebrew word translated “move” (rachaph) has a numerical value or gematria of 288, or 144 × 2. Its next occurrence is Dt 32:11, where it is translated “fluttered.” Naish states “In both these passages the gracious work of the heavenly dove, the Holy Spirit of God, is described.” Other occurrences of this number are to be found in the word “eastward” (Ge 2:8) in the phrase “eastward in Eden,” showing that God intended man “should live a life of perfect government, a wonderful garden life, bringing forth the fruit of the Spirit, and finding their chief joy in communion with their loving God.” The cubic capacity of the ark, found by multiplying its three dimensions of 300 cubits, 50 cubits, and 30 cubits, was 450,000 cubic cubits, a number whose prime factors are 5x5x5x5x5x144. The number appears here in Re 7:4 of the number “sealed by the Holy Spirit before God’s judgments fall on earth. It does not of course mean that this identical number are saved in that time of tribulation. It is only using the numbers 144 and 10 in the spiritual sense in which these numbers are used through Scripture to tell of those who by the power of the Holy Spirit are kept from that time of trouble.” The same number occurs in Re ch. 14. “Again, we are given a symbolical picture of those who have yielded their lives wholly to the guidance of the Holy Spirit. They are taken up to be with Christ, their Savior, before the actual ‘harvest of the earth’ is reaped” (Spiritual Arithmetic, pp. 107-109). Who are the 144,000? The Jehovah’s Witnesses teach that the 144,000 is the body of spirit-begotten believers who have a “heavenly hope” (Ro 8:24. Ep 4:4. Col 1:5. He 7:19. 1 P 1:3. 1 J 3:3). All other believers can have only an “earthly hope” (Jb 14:7. Je 31:17. Ac 26:6). Once the Watchtower organization had more than 144,000 adherents, the teaching was developed that the “great multitude” mentioned later in the chapter (ver. 9) referred to those Christians who had only an earthly hope. Jehovah’s Witnesses teach that members of the “great multitude” who have only an earthly hope do not need to be born again (see related note, Jn 3:7). Peters remarks “It is a matter of amazement how coolly and deliberately men can appropriate Scripture to themselves which relates to the future. Sects, at various times, have professed to be those sealed ones” (Theocratic Kingdom, vol. 2, p. 323, note 1). Not considering that the number sealed refers to a time yet future, Jehovah’s Witnesses claim the number represents the total number of those who can be born again and have a heavenly hope. How long would it take for the apostolic church of the New Testament to reach the size of 144,000 converts? Suppose we assume that the first converts were zealous witnessing Christians during the lifetime of the apostles. Suppose each convert was able to win just one person to Christ each year of his new life in Christ, and that each of these converts continued to win an additional convert each year. Take into account only the growth theoretically possible for the new converts won by the original group of 5,000 converts mentioned in the book of Acts. Exclude from consideration any additional converts won through the ministry of the apostles (Paul, Barnabas, Apollos, and the original twelve disciples) to compensate for any of the original 5000 who may not have been active soul winners. In the year A.D. 33, the size of the church would be 5,000. In 34 A.D., 10,000; 35 A.D., 20,000; 36 A.D., 40,000; 37 A.D., 80,000; 38 A.D., 160,000—assuming each new convert continued to win one additional convert per year. Thus before Paul began his first missionary journey in A.D. 45, the New Testament church could easily have surpassed the figure of 144,000 genuine converts. If any converts beyond that figure were limited to an earthly hope without opportunity for new birth and “heavenly hope,” this most certainly would be reflected in the teaching of the New Testament epistles of Peter or Paul. The earliest of Paul’s epistles was written in A.D. 52 or 54, fourteen or more years after the time the New Testament church exceeded the 144,000 maximum number the Jehovah’s Witnesses teach can have a heavenly hope. Is this situation reflected in the writings of Paul? At the time Paul wrote 2 Thessalonians (A.D. 52 or 54), he specifically confirms that the “falling away” or apostasy had not yet occurred (2 Th 2:3). This Scripture evidence would lead us to believe that the vast body of believers had remained faithful. What few that fell away during this time would be more than made up by any converts won beyond the first five years after Pentecost. If the claim of Jehovah’s Witnesses that the heavenly hope is limited to 144,000 has any validity, the significance of that hope for anyone today is purely historical, for since this number was reached within five years of Pentecost, no person alive today could possibly lay claim to be one of that fixed number, not even the leaders of the Watchtower in Brooklyn, New York. Following Jehovah Witness doctrine to its logical conclusion, the apostle Paul must have been mistaken in his theology, for he continued to emphasize the “heavenly hope” and the necessity of the “new birth” (1 Co 6:2. 2 Co 5:17. Ga 6:14) long after the “heavenly class” was complete in number. The 144,000 of Revelation 7:4 and 14:1 do not pertain to persons who have lived before now, but to a specific group in the future. The book of Revelation supplies its own outline in Re 1:19. The 144,000 are mentioned well after Re 4:1, where the third grand division of the book pertaining to “things which must be hereafter” commences. Therefore, these events must take place during the “day of the Lord” (Re 1:10n), after the Rapture of the church (1 Th 4:16-18), and during the Great Tribulation. The 144,000 are all males (Re 14:4), and are all Jews (Re 7:4, “of all the tribes of the children of Israel”). Scripture speaks of three categories of persons its contents concern: the Jews, the Gentiles, and the church of God (1 Co 10:32). What is stated in Re 7:4 pertains to Israel—it cannot pertain to any other group. The names of the tribes of Israel are nowhere in Scripture ever applied to the Gentiles or the church of God. Furthermore, the 144,000 are not the only saints in heaven. They were preceded by all those who died in Christ before the Rapture (2 Co +*5:8. 1 Th 4:14). They are preceded by those who have been martyred for Christ (Re *6:9-11). There are five raptures in the first resurrection; the 144,000 constitute only one of these five. The five raptures are: (1) Christ and the saints in Jerusalem at his first resurrection, 1 Co 15:20, 23. Mt 27:52, 53. Ep 4:8-10. (2) Afterward, they that are Christ’s at his coming, 1 Co 15:23, 51-54. Lk +*21:34-36. Jn +*14:1-3. 2 Co 5:1-8. Ep 5:27. Ph 3:11, 20, 21. Col 3:4. 1 Th 2:19. 3:13. 4:13-17. 5:9, 23. 2 Th 2:1, 7. Ja 5:7, 8. 1 P 5:4. 1 J 2:28. 3:2. (3) The 144,000 Jews saved in the first 3 1/2 years of the tribulation (of Daniel’s 70th week), caught up to heaven as the manchild, Re 12:5. 14:1-5. Is 66:7, 8. Da 12:1. (4) The great multitude of tribulation saints saved after rapture number two above, during Re 6:1—19:21. (5) The rapture of the two witnesses, ending the first resurrection which began with the resurrection of Christ, Re 11:7-11. 1 Co 15:20, 23. The 144,000 do not comprise the totality of all saints possessing a “heavenly hope” throughout this age. All of the 144,000 are on the earth at the same time. This is evidenced by the fact that they are as a group “sealed” and protected from the tribulation by the angel. The 144,000 do not constitute the “little flock.” The “little flock” is comprised of all born-again believers. The flock is little because there are “few that be saved” (Mt +*7:14). The term “flock” is used in the New Testament for the true church made up of born-again believers (Ac 20:28). The “other sheep” are the Gentile Christians who, in addition to the Jewish believers, are now being constituted one body in Christ, the church (Ac 10:45. 15:7, 17. Ep +*4:4). The Great Tribulation is still future, and pertains to Israel. The church is raptured prior to the manifestation of the Antichrist, 2 Th 2:8n, and prior to the Great Tribulation (Jn 14:1-3. 1 Co 15:51, 52. Ph 3:21. 1 Th 4:16-18. 2 Th +*1:7. 2:1. Ti +*2:13n). Christ’s Second Advent occurs at the end of tribulation, when Christ personally destroys the Antichrist. Since it is certain that Antichrist is destroyed before the Millennium, this proves absolutely that Christ’s coming is premillennial (2 Th 2:8n). At the Second Advent, Christ returns visibly in power and great glory (Mt +*16:27n) with his saints to rule over His eternal kingdom on this earth (Da +*7:13, 14. Zc 14:5, 9. 2 Ti +*4:1n). Since the rapture of the Church and the Great Tribulation are future, and the 144,000 are protected during the first half of the Tribulation, the 144,000 must constitute a group that is yet future, and cannot pertain to any denomination or other religious group of today. Re ✓14:1, 3. Ge 15:5. Ro *9:27. *11:5, 6. all the tribes. The tribes of Dan and Ephraim are omitted from the list which follows, being replaced by Levi and Joseph. The reason for Ephraim’s omission is suggested by Ho 4:17. For possible reasons for Dan’s omission see the related texts and note (Le 24:10-16. Dt 29:18-21. Jg 18:2-31. 1 K 12:26-33. 1 Ch 7:12n). Dan and Ephraim are included in Ezekiel’s prophecy of their inheritance in the eternal earthly kingdom of Christ (Ezk 48:1, 2, 5, 6, 32), demonstrating God’s faithfulness to his covenant and promise (Le 26:44. Ml 3:6. Ro 11:29. 15:8). Re 21:12. 1 Ch 7:12n. Ezk 47:13. 48:19, 31. Zc 9:1. Mt +*19:28. Lk +*22:30. Ac 26:7. Ja 1:1. children of Israel. Re 2:14. 21:12. Ac +5:21.`

[[Glossário do NTSK]]
