---
referencia: Mc 16.16
alias:
  - Mc 16:16
  - Ma 16:16
  - Ma 16.16
  - Mar 16:16
  - Mar 16.16
  - Marc 16:16
  - Marc 16.16
  - Marcos 16:16
  - Marcos 16.16
  - Mark 16:16
  - Mark 16.16
  - Mk 16:16
  - Mk 16.16
  - Mr 16:16
  - Mr 16.16
  - Mrk 16:16
  - Mrk 16.16

livro: Marcos
sigla: Mc
indice_livro: 41
capitulo: 16
versiculo: 16
KJV: He that believeth and is baptized shall be saved; but he that believeth not shall be damned. 
BKJ: Quem crer e for batizado será salvo; mas quem não crer será condenado. 
testamento: Novo Testamento
canon_judaico: 
canon_cristao: Evangelhos
data_criacao: 2025-09-03
data_atualizacao: 
status: publicado
tags:
  - Bíblia
  - NovoTestamento
  - Evangelhos
  - Marcos

---


[[Bíblia]] ➜ [[Novo Testamento]] ➜  [[Evangelhos]] ➜ [[Marcos]] ➜ [[Mc 16]]
[[Mc 16.15|Voltar]] ❮ [[Mc 16.16]] ❯ [[Mc 16.17|Avançar]]

## 📜 **Texto do Versículo**

| Versão  | Texto                                                                                      |
| ------  | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| BKJ1611 | Quem crer e for batizado será salvo; mas quem não crer será condenado.  |
| KJV     | He that believeth and is baptized shall be saved; but he that believeth not shall be damned.  |

## 🔗 **Referências Cruzadas (NTSK)**

`that believeth and. Mk 1:15. Lk 7:50. 8:12. Jn ✓1:12, 13. ✓3:15, 16, 18, 36. ✓5:24. 6:29, 35, 40. 7:37, 38. *11:25, 26. 12:46. ✓20:31. Ac *10:43. *13:38, 39. ✓16:30-32. Ro 3:6. *4:5, 24. ✓10:9. He 10:38, 39. 1 P 1:21. *3:21. 1 J ✓5:10-13. is baptized. T#36, 894. Mt +*28:19. Jn *3:3, 5. Ac +*2:38, 41. *8:36-39. 10:48. 13:24. +*22:16. Ro ✓6:3, 4. *10:9-14. 1 Co ✓12:13. Ga ✓3:27. Col ✓2:12. 1 P *3:20, 21. shall be saved. Ac ✓16:31. Ro ✓10:9. Ep ✓2:8. Ti 3:5. 1 P 3:21. but he. Jn ✓3:18, 19, 36. +*8:24. *12:47, 48. Ac 13:46. 2 Co 4:3, 4. 2 Th ✓1:8. ✓2:8, 12. Re *20:15. +*21:8. believeth not. ver. 11. Lk 24:11, 41. Ac 28:24. Ro 3:3. 2 Th 2:12. 2 Ti 2:13. 1 P 2:7. shall be damned. For each positive requirement for salvation, there is in Scripture a negative statement threatening loss of salvation if the requirement is not satisfied. That is, belief as a requirement for salvation is stated positively and negatively (Ac 16:31 w Jn 3:18); repentance is spoken of positively and negatively (Ac 17:30 w Lk 13:3). Although baptism is enjoined as a command, it is nowhere stated in the negative (i.e. “he that is not baptised is lost,” or the equivalent), as all positive, essential requirements for salvation are. This passage comes closest to being such a negative statement, but it lacks the negative clause pertaining to baptism. Nor can such a clause be “supplied” as though its omission were a mere ellipsis, for in so essential a matter, we dare not add to what is expressly written (Pr ✓30:6. Re ✓22:18, 19). Therefore, the physical rite of water baptism cannot be shown from Scripture to be necessary to salvation. Mk 16:16 is not a command statement, nor is it in the subjunctive mood of a conditional clause, which would have to read “If one believes and is baptized he shall be saved.” If it were so worded here or anywhere, then baptism would be a necessary condition with which one must comply in order to be saved. But Mark 16:16 is a mere declaration that the baptized believer shall be saved. Had the Bible said “He that is baptized, and takes the Lord’s Supper, and pays tithes and offerings, and forsakes not the assembling of himself with other believers, and cares for widows and orphans, shall be saved,” it would have been a declarative statement of general Bible truth. But that is not the same as saying “If a person does all these things he shall be saved.” What one receives when he believes, he does not lose when he is baptized. Nowhere in the New Testament is baptism made a command or a condition essential to salvation. It never occurs as such in the imperative mood in a command statement, or in the subjunctive mood in a conditional clause, with the promise that by subscribing to such one shall receive salvation. There are four, perhaps five, conditions or terms of salvation, all of which are stated both positively and negatively: (1) one must hear the Word of God: positive, Ro 10:17. Jn 5:24. negative, Ac 3:23. (2) one must be convicted by the Holy Spirit: positively, Jn 6:44. 16:8-11. negatively, Ro 8:9. (3) repentance is a means by which one receives salvation: positively, Ac 11:18. *17:30, 31. 2 P *3:9. negatively, Lk +*13:3. 2 Co 7:10. (4) belief in or on Jesus Christ as personal Savior and Lord: positively, Ac 10:43. *15:9. 16:31. Ro 1:16. Ga *3:26. Ep *2:8, 9. 1 J ✓5:1, 11-13. negatively, Jn 3:18. 8:24. (5) confession of Christ as Lord before men: positively, Ro ✓10:9, 10. negatively, Mt 10:32, 33. As with repentance, confession is not regarded in Scripture as an act which is separate from belief; it is concomitant. If not, then one who is dumb cannot be saved; nor could a person isolated from society be saved through the reading of the Word. All four or five conditions or terms of salvation are stated both positively and negatively; baptism is not one of these. Just as the verb “baptize” is never used in the entire New Testament in the subjunctive mode in a promise of salvation, neither is the noun “baptism” used in the instrumental, means, or agency case of prepositions so as to offer salvation, justification, or the new birth by or through baptism. In stating the conditions of salvation, Scripture does teach that (1) one receives a pure heart by faith in Christ, Ac 15:9; (2) one is justified by faith, Ro 5:1. Ac 13:39; (3) one is saved by grace through faith, Ep 2:8, 9; (4) one is said to be a child of God by faith in Christ Jesus (Ga 3:26. Ep 3:17), but one is never said to receive a pure heart, be justified, be saved, or to be a child of God by or through baptism (some of the preceding information I first learned when I heard Albert Garner debate in Gainesville, Florida, in 1974. Much of the information is also in his book, Defense of the Faith, Part 2, Chapter 2, “The Baptismal Regeneration Heresy,” especially pp. 238-241, “Objections Answered, Mark 16:16”). The one word believe represents all a sinner can do and all a sinner must do to be saved. Hearing, conviction of the Holy Spirit, repentance, confession of sin, confession of Christ before others, are all concomitants of—things that accompany—true belief, not so many discrete requirements for salvation. A study of what the New Testament says regarding Abraham’s faith (Ro 4:3-5, 10, 11, 24. Ga 3:6. He 11:17-19. Ja 2:21) will show that Abraham was declared righteous (Ge 15:6) chronologically before any act of obedience on his part, before the institution of circumcision, before the sacrifice of Isaac, and of course well before the establishment of the Mosaic law. This teaches us that no ordinance, no act of obedience, no obedience to law, and no “act of faith” precedes the imputation of righteousness—simply believing God.`

[[Glossário do NTSK]]
