---
referencia: Mc 11.13
alias:
  - Mc 11:13
  - Ma 11:13
  - Ma 11.13
  - Mar 11:13
  - Mar 11.13
  - Marc 11:13
  - Marc 11.13
  - Marcos 11:13
  - Marcos 11.13
  - Mark 11:13
  - Mark 11.13
  - Mk 11:13
  - Mk 11.13
  - Mr 11:13
  - Mr 11.13
  - Mrk 11:13
  - Mrk 11.13

livro: Marcos
sigla: Mc
indice_livro: 41
capitulo: 11
versiculo: 13
KJV: And seeing a fig tree afar off having leaves, he came, if haply he might find any thing thereon - and when he came to it, he found nothing but leaves; for the time of figs was not yet. 
BKJ: e, avistando de longe uma figueira que tinha folhas, foi ver se talvez pudesse encontrar nela alguma coisa; e, chegando até ela, nada encontrou senão folhas, porque ainda não era tempo de figos. 
testamento: Novo Testamento
canon_judaico: 
canon_cristao: Evangelhos
data_criacao: 2025-09-03
data_atualizacao: 
status: publicado
tags:
  - Bíblia
  - NovoTestamento
  - Evangelhos
  - Marcos

---


[[Bíblia]] ➜ [[Novo Testamento]] ➜  [[Evangelhos]] ➜ [[Marcos]] ➜ [[Mc 11]]
[[Mc 11.12|Voltar]] ❮ [[Mc 11.13]] ❯ [[Mc 11.14|Avançar]]

## 📜 **Texto do Versículo**

| Versão  | Texto                                                                                      |
| ------  | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| BKJ1611 | e, avistando de longe uma figueira que tinha folhas, foi ver se talvez pudesse encontrar nela alguma coisa; e, chegando até ela, nada encontrou senão folhas, porque ainda não era tempo de figos.  |
| KJV     | And seeing a fig tree afar off having leaves, he came, if haply he might find any thing thereon: and when he came to it, he found nothing but leaves; for the time of figs was not yet.  |

## 🔗 **Referências Cruzadas (NTSK)**

`seeing. Mt 21:19. Lk *13:6-9. a fig tree. The fig tree, sukea, is a genus of the polygamia triaecia class of plants, seldom rising above twelve feet, but sending off from the bottom many spreading branches. The leaves are of a dark green color, nearly a span long, smooth, and irregularly divided into from three to five deep rounded lobes; and the fruit grows on short and thick stalks, of a purplish color, and contains a soft, sweet, and fragrant pulp, intermixed with numerous small seeds. if. ƒ184A, 1 Co +15:2. Mk 8:5. Jn 11:34. haply. Ru 2:3. 1 S 6:9. Lk 10:31. 12:6, 7. might find. Jn 15:8. he found. Is 5:7. for. Dr. Campbell observes, that the declaration, “for the time of (ripe, Ed.) figs was not yet,” is not the reason why our Lord did not find any fruit on the tree, because the fig is of that class of vegetables in which the fruit is formed in its immature state before the leaves are seen. But as the fruit is of a pulpy nature, the broad, thick leaves come out in profusion to protect it from the rays of the sun during the time it is ripening. If the words, “for the time,” etc. however, are read as a parenthesis, they then become a reason why Jesus Christ should look for fruit, because the season for gathering not having fully come, it would remove all suspicion that the fruit had been gathered: while the presence of the leaves incontestably proved the advance of the tree to the state in which fruit is found. yet. ƒ63K, Ge +37:13. The Passover did not occur at the proper fig-season; but figs remained on the trees (dried) right through the winter. These, which could generally be found were called pag. The name is preserved in the word Bethphage (house of figs). At the time of the Passover, such figs might well have been looked for. The Lord went to see “if consequently he might find anything thereon.” It was “if consequently,” because “it was not the proper season of figs” (suka: not olunthoi, as the others were called, and for which he sought). We must also remember that in the East all fruit trees were enclosed in gardens, and had an owner. This tree, though, by the roadside (Mt 21:19) must have been enclosed, and as it grew over the wall, passers by might partake of the fruit (Dt 23:24). But the owner had probably shaken the fruit off, or gathered it himself, and hence deserved the judgment which came upon him (see Le 19:9, 10. 23:22. Dt 24:19-21). This is one of the two miracles of destruction wrought by Jesus: and we know that in the other case the owners of the swine were justly punished (B124).`

[[Glossário do NTSK]]
