---
referencia: Ap 13.17
alias:
  - Ap 13:17
  - Apo 13:17
  - Apo 13.17
  - Apoc 13:17
  - Apoc 13.17
  - Apocal 13:17
  - Apocal 13.17
  - Apocalipse 13:17
  - Apocalipse 13.17
  - Re 13:17
  - Re 13.17
  - Rev 13:17
  - Rev 13.17
  - Revelation 13:17
  - Revelation 13.17
  - The Revelation 13:17
  - The Revelation 13.17

livro: Apocalipse
sigla: Ap
indice_livro: 66
capitulo: 13
versiculo: 17
KJV: And that no man might buy or sell, save he that had the mark, or the name of the beast, or the number of his name. 
BKJ: e que nenhum homem possa comprar ou vender, a não ser aquele que tiver a marca, ou o nome da besta, ou o número de seu nome. 
testamento: Novo Testamento
canon_judaico: 
canon_cristao: Apocalipse
data_criacao: 2025-09-03
data_atualizacao: 
status: publicado
tags:
  - Bíblia
  - NovoTestamento
  - Apocalipse
  - Apocalipse

---


[[Bíblia]] ➜ [[Novo Testamento]] ➜  [[Apocalipse]] ➜ [[Apocalipse]] ➜ [[Ap 13]]
[[Ap 13.16|Voltar]] ❮ [[Ap 13.17]] ❯ [[Ap 13.18|Avançar]]

## 📜 **Texto do Versículo**

| Versão  | Texto                                                                                      |
| ------  | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| BKJ1611 | e que nenhum homem possa comprar ou vender, a não ser aquele que tiver a marca, ou o nome da besta, ou o número de seu nome.  |
| KJV     | And that no man might buy or sell, save he that had the mark, or the name of the beast, or the number of his name.  |

## 🔗 **Referências Cruzadas (NTSK)**

`mark. See on ver. 16. Ga ◐+*6:17n. name. Re 3:12. 14:11. 17:5. 22:4. the number. ver. 18. Re 15:2. of his name. The letters of the name of the Antichrist, in Greek, will total 666, using the normal mathematical valuation of the Greek letters, by a process known as gematria, of which this is the only mention in Scripture. Numerical values were assigned to all the letters of the Greek alphabet by the Greeks themselves, ranging from 1 for alpha to 800 for omega. See the tables for the Hebrew and Greek alphabets giving the numerical values assigned in E. W. Bullinger, Number in Scripture, pp. 48, 49. The number six has identifiable spiritual significance (Da 3:1n). It has long been known that several of the names of Satan, for example, have mathematical values evenly divisible by the number thirteen. “Dragon” has a numerical value of 975, or 13x3x5x5. “Tempter” has a numerical value of 1053 (13x3x3x3); a place value of 91 (13x7); and a total value of 1144 (13x11x2x2x2). “Belial” has a numerical value of 78 (13x3x2); a place value of 39 (13x3); a total value of 117 (13x3x3). “Murderer” has a numerical value of 1820 (13x7x5x2x2). “Serpent” has a numeric value of 780 (13x3x2x2x5). The phrase in Re 12:9, “called the devil and satan” has a numerical value of 2197 (13x13x13). That this many names of Satan should all demonstrate the factor thirteen seems beyond what is reasonable to attribute to mere chance. Beyond the spiritual significance of the numbers in the Bible, is another interesting and valuable study which involves the mathematical structure of the original Greek and Hebrew text of the Scripture. It often appears that the mathematical structure of the original text, taken by sentences, not verses, possesses a structure where the number seven is the consistent or predominant factor. Seven is a consistent prime factor in the numerical value of the sentence, in the place value of the sentence, and in the total value of the sentence. By “factor” is meant what in mathematics is called the “prime factor,” a set of numbers which are divisible by themselves and one only, which multiply to give a specific number. Every number has only one set of prime factors, and these may be found listed in standard mathematical tables (such as the British Association for the Advancement of Science, Mathematical Tables, Volume 5, Factor Table, giving the complete decomposition of all numbers less than 100,000, prepared by J. Peters, A. Lodge, and others, London, 1935, 1963). The numerical structure is displayed in the prime factors of the numbers involved, and I have shown these in parentheses in the examples above and below. The numerical value is simply the sum of all the arithmetical values of the Greek or Hebrew letters in the sentence. The place value is the sum of the individual letter place values (which in Greek range from 1 to 24, the Greek alphabet having 24 letters). The total value is simply the sum of the numerical and place values. The sentence “But remember Lot’s wife” (Lk 17:32) contains five words in Greek. Their numerical value is 3374 (7x2x241); place value is 322 (7x2x23); total value is 3696 (7x2x2x2x2x3x11). Romans 10:13, “For whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved” contains eight words in Greek. Their numerical value is 4459 (7x7x7x13); place value is 490 (7x7x2x5); total value is 4949 (7x7x101). Romans 10:17, “So then faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the word of God” contains eleven words in Greek. Their numeric value is 3276 (7x2x2x3x3x13); place value is 420 (7x2x2x3x5); total value is 3696 (7x2x2x2x2x3x11). Romans 11:26, 27, “There shall come out of Zion the Deliverer, and shall turn away ungodliness from Jacob: for this is my covenant unto them, when I shall take away their sins” contains 23 words in Greek. Their numeric value is 12180 (7x3x2x2x5x29); place value is 1176 (7x7x2x2x2); total value is 13356 (7x3x2x2x3x53). Just as the names and titles of Satan frequently possess a significant mathematical structure, so Christ’s titles often possess significant structure. In the passage just cited (Ro 11:26), the title “the Deliverer” possesses an extensive structure involving the number five. The name “Jesus” has a numerical value of 888, which is quite a contrast to 666. The number 8 has spiritual significance (Mi 5:5n). It is unlikely that this many instances of structure by seven could occur by chance in such a limited section of text as Romans chapter 11. The frequency with which this mathematical phenomena is found is greater than what can be attributed statistically to chance, and is believed by many who have devoted considerable time and study to the subject to be an evidence of design, supporting the Bible claim to divine inspiration. I am indebted to Mr. G. E. Hoyer, formerly of Chicago, Illinois, with whom I have studied for over twenty-five years, for my knowledge of this subject. Much more could be said about the usefulness of this research. The results of this study have a bearing upon deciding consistently matters of orthography (spelling). Findings of this research lend support to some texts in the Greek New Testament which have been marked as doubtful, but space allotment in this reference work will not allow more than this brief sampling of the evidence. Acts 8:37, marked doubtful in some modern translations, has a numerical value of 16170 (7x7x3x11x2x5); a place value of 1617 (7x7x3x11); a total value of 17787 (7x7x3x11x11). I found, upon my own investigation, that the text of 1 P 3:18 with the article in the dative case (“raised by the Spirit”) possesses a consistent structure by seven: the numerical value of this text is 13230 (7x7x3x3x3x2x5); the place value is 1281 (7x3x61); the total value is 14511 (7x3x691). There is no structure when the article is omitted. In my file I have perhaps 100 examples of this pervasive structure by seven for texts from the New Testament. Mr. Hoyer has, I would suppose, several times this number which I have seen in his files. On the supposition that perhaps this structure could be found in any Greek literature of the period, I tested sample passages from the LXX., the Apostolic Fathers, sample passages from Scripture Parallels in Ancient Classics, and entire books and chapters from the Old Testament Apocrypha. The results were comparatively meager. The closest and best example I have found of “structure” is in the Epistle of Jeremy, verse 13, which has a numeric value of 9163 (7x7x17x11); a place value of 952 (7x17x2x2x2); a total value of 10115 (7x17x17x5). I do not argue from this example that this verse is “inspired,” however. Neither do I conclude that texts in the Bible which do not contain this structure are uninspired. Examining the text in Jeremy for what Mr. Hoyer has called “detail structure,” even this text does not possess the richness to be found in every New Testament example he has shown me. That I should be able to find an occasional random text which has in all three values a multiple of seven is not beyond the realm of statistical possibility, for theoretically something less than one sentence in every forty-nine samples should have such a structure. Mr. Hoyer has found for the New Testament far more examples than can be attributed to this normal chance distribution, and his examples seem to demonstrate a grammatical and orthographical consistency which supports the thesis of intentional design. For example, the name “David” has several possible spellings in Greek, according to accepted MSS. evidence, but only one of these alternatives (Daueid) is consistently selected in such texts as Mt 9:27, which has a numerical value of 1456 (7x2x2x2x2x13); place value of 189 (7x3x3x3); total value of 1645 (7x5x47). So for Mt 12:23, which has a numerical value of 6664 (7x7x2x2x2x17); a place value of 756 (7x2x2x3x3x3); a total value of 7420 (7x2x2x5x53). When a different spelling of “David” is selected for these texts, they no longer possess a discernible mathematical structure. I call attention to these facts because it ought to be more generally recognized that there is much more to know and understand about even apparently insignificant matters related to the Bible than most people—even scholars—are aware, and to offer the caution that one must not arbitrarily dismiss the validity of a branch of study without having thoroughly personally investigated the subject (Ps 25:9. Jn 7:24, ✓51). To my knowledge none of this research has been published, as the research is incomplete and still in progress. There are other books which have appeared in the past which are related to this subject, but apparently none pursue the study with the mathematical consistency and rigor of Mr. Hoyer’s work. The common flaw underlying many studies of this subject appears to be the arbitrary selection of evidence. Given a large enough mass of raw data, one could find many amazing “patterns” and combinations if one looked long enough, and devised enough ways of finding them. The common regard for thirteen as an “unlucky” number is based upon this flaw, for instances are gathered which favor the hypothesis, but those that do not are ignored. For the spiritual significance of this number in the Bible see Ge 14:4, where at its first mention it is associated with rebellion. Another flaw which may be present in the work of Del Washburn and Jerry Lucas (in their work titled Theomatics), is their rather cavalier attitude toward Greek grammar, particularly in their conceptual understanding of the use and non-use of the Greek article. They state “There is not a Greek scholar or theologian alive that can prove that the definite Greek article has any meaning (interpretive significance) whatsoever” (Theomatics, p. 340). While it must be candidly admitted that the use and non-use of the Greek article is not fully understood, my years of study of American English linguistics lead me to confidently affirm that our knowledge and understanding of English grammar is no better. Contemporary scholars are not in complete agreement as to the significance of the Greek article in some of its uses (D. A. Carson in Exegetical Fallacies, p. 84, criticizes R. H. Lenski as “notoriously unreliable” when Lenski attempts to distinguish articular nomos to represent Mosaic law, anarthrous nomos to represent the principle of law; see my related notes on Ro 4:15 and Ga 3:10; see Boyce W. Blackwelder, Light from the Greek New Testament, p. 148, where he has a fine study of the issue, “The Article and ‘Law.’ ” For a related scholarly study, see Arthur Wakefield Slaten, Qualitative Nouns in the Pauline Epistles and Their Translation in the Revised Version, particularly pages 35-40. The authors of Theomatics have misquoted Dana and Mantey. They cite in quotation marks as from Dana and Mantey “in rare cases it is possible that the writer employed the article at random” (Theomatics, p. 341), whereas Dana and Mantey actually wrote “It is precarious to suppose in any instance that a writer is employing an idiom at random, though in rare cases this is possibly true” (Manual Grammar, p. 143). Lucas and Washburn point to William Webster as “A perfect example of a scholar trying to attach a mystical significance to the article,” citing Dana and Mantey’s quotation of Webster. Though Dana and Mantey state “This analysis is doubtless more exact and detailed than the facts will support, but it certainly shows admirable discrimination,” Lucas and Washburn comment “Webster was hard-pressed to establish a rule and fails to do so” (Theomatics, p. 341). Both Dana and Mantey as well as Lucas and Washburn err in regard to “the facts will support,” if they mean to imply that William Webster was unable to adduce satisfactory evidence to support his distinctions, for this fine Cambridge scholar devotes nearly forty lines of index to the uses of the Greek article in his Greek Testament with notes Grammatical and Exegetical, vol. 2, p. 869). My acquaintance with Mr. Hoyer has taught me to respect the advances in Greek scholarship represented by the work of Nigel Turner and others, and not dismiss so quickly the intricacies of Greek grammar as being superfluous or insignificant (See related notes on the Greek article at Mt 27:54. Jn 1:1. See entries under “Nigel Turner” in the index). In the examples I have cited above of mathematical structure found in the text of the Greek New Testament using the procedures refined by Mr. Hoyer in his lifetime of research on the subject, the mathematical pattern is exact (not based upon “neighbor values” as found in the works of Ivan Panin and Jerry Lucas, though the Lucas volume provides valuable mathematical and statistical justification for ascribing design even if their use be allowed), and is found consistently in the same manner for every passage, so I believe Mr. Hoyer’s basic research possesses greater validity than the other approaches alluded to. What has all this to do with ascertaining the meaning of 666? I believe that this number will be found in the manner described, commonly referred to as gematria, and not by the many other approaches esoteric followers of mysticism have devised to find this number, or in contemporary occurrences of this number allegedly found on Social Security checks, computer bar codes, etc., so prevalent in the literature of prophetic sensationalism (2 K 20:11n). I am well aware that most serious Bible scholars would place these matters of the symbolism of numbers and the alleged mathematical structure of the Greek text in the same class as prophetic sensationalism. Oswald T. Allis has written a booklet titled Bible Numerics, which criticizes the whole subject, particularly the work of Ivan Panin. Allis also authored the article on “Numerics, Bible” in Baker’s Dictionary of Theology, edited by Everett F. Harrison, 1960, p. 381. The writings of John J. Davis (Biblical Numerology, 1968; Contemporary Counterfeits, pp. 23-29) are quite critical of this approach. Davis limits his acknowledgment of any symbolic use of number in Scripture to the number seven (Biblical Numerology, p. 116). E. C. Colwell, famous as a Greek scholar, wrote a little book on Bible study which contains some pointed paragraphs against the work of Ivan Panin. Colwell claims such structures as Panin found can be found anywhere, and adduces an example from the opening paragraph of Gone with the Wind (The Study of the Bible, p. 109). I have analyzed the same passage using the procedures Mr. Hoyer adopts for the Greek text of the N.T., only giving mathematical values for the English alphabet in a similar fashion to those given by the Greeks. No mathematical structure is evident. I have also tried numerous verses from the King James Version and other English translations, and have yet to find a single example in English which possesses structure. No doubt one could be found, if enough examples were tested—but I have run out of time. I do not believe the strictures of Allis, Colwell, and Davis, among others, entirely apply to the study as Mr. Hoyer has pursued it, though no doubt there are broader philosophic grounds for objecting to any such study (no matter what evidence might be produced in its support) which would lead them to reject any validity that might be claimed for it. But that noted scholars can be decidedly wrong is evident when one compares the interpretations of Bible prophecy expressed by Allis in his Prophecy and the Church with those of George N. H. Peters in his three volume study, The Theocratic Kingdom of Our Lord Jesus, the Christ. Rather than commit the logical fallacy of appeal to authority, I submit the evidence given in this extensive note (which could easily be extended to book length) to the judgment of the reader. For further study of the number 666 see the fascinating information in David Chilton’s commentary on the book of Revelation, The Days of Vengeance, pp. 344-352.`

[[Glossário do NTSK]]
