---
referencia: Ez 20.36
alias:
  - Ez 20:36
  - Eze 20:36
  - Eze 20.36
  - Ezek 20:36
  - Ezek 20.36
  - Ezekiel 20:36
  - Ezekiel 20.36
  - Ezeq 20:36
  - Ezeq 20.36
  - Ezequiel 20:36
  - Ezequiel 20.36
  - Ezk 20:36
  - Ezk 20.36
  - Ezq 20:36
  - Ezq 20.36

livro: Ezequiel
sigla: Ez
indice_livro: 26
capitulo: 20
versiculo: 36
KJV: Like as I pleaded with your fathers in the wilderness of the land of Egypt, so will I plead with you, saith the Lord GOD. 
BKJ: Como eu pleiteei com vossos pais no deserto da terra do Egito, assim eu pleitearei convosco, diz o Senhor DEUS. 
testamento: Antigo Testamento
canon_judaico: Nevi'im
canon_cristao: Profetas Maiores
data_criacao: 2025-09-03
data_atualizacao: 
status: publicado
tags:
  - Bíblia
  - AntigoTestamento
  - ProfetasMaiores
  - Ezequiel

---


[[Bíblia]] ➜ [[Antigo Testamento]] ➜ [[Nevi'im]] / [[Profetas Maiores]] ➜ [[Ezequiel]] ➜ [[Ez 20]]
[[Ez 20.35|Voltar]] ❮ [[Ez 20.36]] ❯ [[Ez 20.37|Avançar]]

## 📜 **Texto do Versículo**

| Versão  | Texto                                                                                      |
| ------  | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| BKJ1611 | Como eu pleiteei com vossos pais no deserto da terra do Egito, assim eu pleitearei convosco, diz o Senhor DEUS.  |
| KJV     | Like as I pleaded with your fathers in the wilderness of the land of Egypt, so will I plead with you, saith the Lord GOD.  |

## 🔗 **Referências Cruzadas (NTSK)**

`Like as. This comparison with the wilderness experience under Moses is thought to imply a like period of time, forty years, during which the rebels are purged, during the personal presence of Jesus Christ in the wilderness with this portion of Israel before his open victorious manifestation in power and glory of the public stage of the Second Advent when he comes with all his saints (Peters, Theocratic Kingdom, vol. 2, p. 86). Even E. W. Bullinger supposes that these events will take longer than the seven years of Daniel’s final or seventieth week, suggesting that the “Suntelia” is a longer period, which ends with Daniel’s last week, the “Telos” (Apocalypse, p. 348; see also pp. 53, 88, 89, 248, 249, 558, 559). Just as John the Baptist held the office of Elijah at the first advent, and introduced Jesus as the Lamb of God, so at the second advent Elijah will be upon the earth (Is 40:3. Ml 4:5, 6), preparing the way of the Lord, for a period of time before the open manifestation, and like the first advent, Jesus will be upon the earth for a period of time before the public manifestation. Some writers suppose that the forty years of Israel in the wilderness is to be combined with the thirty years Christ was upon earth before commencing his public ministry to indicate a period of seventy years or more, with which idea Peters concurs (Vol. 2, p. *108, *315, 318, *336, *338. Vol. 3, p. 18), as necessary to allow time for the necessary events to transpire. Peters alludes to events which “follow the Advent before the overthrow of Antichrist, such as the development of the confederation, the return of a portion of the Jews to Palestine, the doom of the harlot” (Vol. 2, p. 315); he also refers to the “concealed, hidden Coming for specific purposes (viz., to raise, translate, and glorify His saints, to inaugurate the preliminaries of his Kingdom: Da 2:44. Lk 17:20, etc.) which takes place before the events predicted as pertaining to His visible manifestation” (Vol. 2, p. 319). Just as Sinai was the site of the original organization of Israel’s theocracy and the giving of the law, etc., so it is possible, in view of the many hints given in Scripture, that this wilderness will be the location of such activity again (Dt +*33:2). Mi +*7:15. I pleaded. ver. 13, 21. Ex 32:7, etc. Nu ch. 11. 14:21–23, 28, 29▶𝒫. ch. 16, 25. Ps 106:15, etc. 1 Co 10:5-10.`

[[Glossário do NTSK]]
