---
referencia: Ez 38.16
alias:
  - Ez 38:16
  - Eze 38:16
  - Eze 38.16
  - Ezek 38:16
  - Ezek 38.16
  - Ezekiel 38:16
  - Ezekiel 38.16
  - Ezeq 38:16
  - Ezeq 38.16
  - Ezequiel 38:16
  - Ezequiel 38.16
  - Ezk 38:16
  - Ezk 38.16
  - Ezq 38:16
  - Ezq 38.16

livro: Ezequiel
sigla: Ez
indice_livro: 26
capitulo: 38
versiculo: 16
KJV: And thou shalt come up against my people of Israel, as a cloud to cover the land; it shall be in the latter days, and I will bring thee against my land, that the heathen may know me, when I shall be sanctified in thee, O Gog, before their eyes. 
BKJ: e tu subirás contra o meu povo Israel, como uma nuvem, para cobrir a terra. Isso será nos últimos dias, e hei de trazer-te contra a minha terra, para que os pagãos possam me conhecer, quando eu for santificado em ti, ó Gogue, diante dos seus olhos. 
testamento: Antigo Testamento
canon_judaico: Nevi'im
canon_cristao: Profetas Maiores
data_criacao: 2025-09-03
data_atualizacao: 
status: publicado
tags:
  - Bíblia
  - AntigoTestamento
  - ProfetasMaiores
  - Ezequiel

---


[[Bíblia]] ➜ [[Antigo Testamento]] ➜ [[Nevi'im]] / [[Profetas Maiores]] ➜ [[Ezequiel]] ➜ [[Ez 38]]
[[Ez 38.15|Voltar]] ❮ [[Ez 38.16]] ❯ [[Ez 38.17|Avançar]]

## 📜 **Texto do Versículo**

| Versão  | Texto                                                                                      |
| ------  | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| BKJ1611 | e tu subirás contra o meu povo Israel, como uma nuvem, para cobrir a terra. Isso será nos últimos dias, e hei de trazer-te contra a minha terra, para que os pagãos possam me conhecer, quando eu for santificado em ti, ó Gogue, diante dos seus olhos.  |
| KJV     | And thou shalt come up against my people of Israel, as a cloud to cover the land; it shall be in the latter days, and I will bring thee against my land, that the heathen may know me, when I shall be sanctified in thee, O Gog, before their eyes.  |

## 🔗 **Referências Cruzadas (NTSK)**

`shalt come up against. Mi ✓5:6. as a cloud. ver. 9. it shall be. Though it is not generally agreed what people or transactions are here predicted, yet it seems evident that the prophecy is not yet accomplished. Nothing occurred in the wars of Cambyses, or Antiochus Epiphanes with the Jews, that answers to it; and the expression here used—in the latter days—plainly implies, that there should be a succession of many ages between the publication of the prediction and its accomplishment. It is therefore supposed, with much probability, that its fulfillment will be posterior to the conversion of the Jews and their restoration to their own land; and that the Turks, Tartars, or Scythians, from the northern parts of Asia, perhaps uniting with the inhabitants of some more southern regions, will make war upon the Jews, and be cut off in the manner here predicted. Since the preceding note was written nearly two centuries have passed, and it seems possible that the fulfillment of this prophecy must take place after the regathering of the Jews to their own land, since they are now in their own land, but before the final and complete restoration (Is ✓11:11n). It is most probable that these events take place before the millennium, and are not those of Re 20:8. While some would identify these events with Re 20:8, there is nothing to recommend the identification except the name “Gog and Magog,” all other attendant circumstances being totally different (see ver. 4n). Perhaps these events may take place before the Great Tribulation of Je 30:7. It is unlikely that the Jews could be burying the remains of the huge armies described here at any time during the tribulation. If the Millennium immediately follows the seven year tribulation period, this would argue for a pretribulation placement of these events, for there is no record or likelihood of this activity (which will take seven years, Ezk 39:9) taking place during the Millennium. The destruction of Russia and her allies by Israel may leave a power vacuum in the Middle East and lead to a one world government, perhaps headed at some point by the Antichrist. An agreement with Israel may allow it to exist in peace until the agreement is broken, and the events of the Great Tribulation take place, followed by the Second Advent of Christ, and the establishment of his millennial kingdom. Students of Scripture greatly differ in the fine points of prophetic interpretation, and there is particular disagreement at this time in placing the rapture of the church. It appears that of the three positions—pretribulation, midtribulation, and posttribulation, the pretribulation rapture position holds a slight edge in probability because its proponents generally are more consistent in their interpretation of the Olivet discourse in Matthew chapter 24, and parallel passages in Mark and Luke. It is possible, but not certain, that these events of Ezk ch. 38 and 39 will precede the rapture of the church. They could take place during the time period between the rapture and the onset of the seven year Great Tribulation. As to the three positions held regarding the millennium, the premillenial, postmillennial, or amillennial positions, only the premillennial position appears to agree with consistent Bible interpretation in taking into account the requirements for the fulfillment of prophecies connected with the Abrahamic, Davidic, and New covenants in their connection with the literal re-establishment of natural Israel in Palestine, and the setting up of the theocratic kingdom of Christ on the throne of David to rule over the nation Israel and the world from the capital city Jerusalem during his millennial reign, Is +*11:11n. ver. 8. Dt 31:29. Is 2:2. Da 2:28. 10:14. Ho 3:5. Mi 4:1. 1 Ti 4:1. 2 Ti 3:1. the latter days. ver. +*8. Je 49:39. Da 2:28. I will bring thee. Ex +*9:16. Dt +*2:30. 1 S +*18:10n. Is +*45:7. Am +*3:6. Ep +*1:11. my land. Le +*25:23n. Dt 32:43. Ps 10:16. 85:1. Is 14:2, 25. Je 2:7. Ho 9:3. Jl 1:6. 3:2. Zc 9:16. Compare “my people,” ver. 14, and “my mountains,” ver. 21. heathen may know. ver. 23. Ezk 35:11. 36:23. 37:28. 39:6, 7, 21. Ex 14:4. 1 S 17:45-47. 2 K 19:19. Ps *9:16. 83:17, 18. Da 3:24-29. 4:32-37. 6:15-27. Mi 7:15-17. Hab 3:2. Mt 6:9, 10. when I. ver. 23. Ezk 20:41. 28:22, 25. 36:23. 39:27. Ge +*12:3. Nu 27:14. Dt 32:51. Ps +*122:6. Is 5:16.`

[[Glossário do NTSK]]
