---
referencia: Is 13.19
alias:
  - Is 13:19
  - Isa 13:19
  - Isa 13.19
  - Isaiah 13:19
  - Isaiah 13.19
  - Isaías 13:19
  - Isaías 13.19

livro: Isaías
sigla: Is
indice_livro: 23
capitulo: 13
versiculo: 19
KJV: And Babylon, the glory of kingdoms, the beauty of the Chaldees’ excellency, shall be as when God overthrew Sodom and Gomorrah. 
BKJ: E Babilônia, a glória dos reinos, a beleza da excelência dos caldeus, será como quando Deus destruiu Sodoma e Gomorra. 
testamento: Antigo Testamento
canon_judaico: Nevi'im
canon_cristao: Profetas Maiores
data_criacao: 2025-09-03
data_atualizacao: 
status: publicado
tags:
  - Bíblia
  - AntigoTestamento
  - ProfetasMaiores
  - Isaías

---


[[Bíblia]] ➜ [[Antigo Testamento]] ➜ [[Nevi'im]] / [[Profetas Maiores]] ➜ [[Isaías]] ➜ [[Is 13]]
[[Is 13.18|Voltar]] ❮ [[Is 13.19]] ❯ [[Is 13.20|Avançar]]

## 📜 **Texto do Versículo**

| Versão  | Texto                                                                                      |
| ------  | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| BKJ1611 | E Babilônia, a glória dos reinos, a beleza da excelência dos caldeus, será como quando Deus destruiu Sodoma e Gomorra.  |
| KJV     | And Babylon, the glory of kingdoms, the beauty of the Chaldees’ excellency, shall be as when God overthrew Sodom and Gomorrah.  |

## 🔗 **Referências Cruzadas (NTSK)**

`Babylon. Babylon, whose destruction and utter ruin are here predicted, was situated in the midst of a large plain, having a very deep and fruitful soil, on the Euphrates, about 252 miles south-east of Palmyra, and the same distance north-west of Susa and the Persian gulf, in lat. 32 degrees 30 minutes North and long. 44 degrees 20 minutes East. According to Herodotus, it formed a perfect square, each side of which was 120 stadia, and consequently its circumference 480 stadia, or sixty miles; enclosed by a wall 200 cubits high, and fifty wide, on the top of which were small watch towers of one story high, leaving a space between them, through which a chariot and four might pass and turn. On each side were twenty-five gates of solid brass, from each of which proceeded a street, 150 feet broad, making in all fifty streets; which, crossing each other at right angles, intersected the city into 676 squares, extending four stadia and a half on each side, along which stood the houses, all built three or four stories high, and highly decorated towards the street; the interior of these squares being employed as gardens, pleasure grounds. Its principal ornaments were the temple of Belus, having a tower of eight stories, upon a base of a quarter of a mile square; a most magnificent palace, and the famous hanging gardens, or artificial mountains raised upon arches, and planted with large and beautiful trees. Cyrus took it by diverting the waters of the Euphrates, which ran through the midst, and entering by the channel; and the river being never restored to its proper course, overflowed the whole country and made it a morass. Darius Hystaspes afterwards depopulated the place, lowered the walls, and demolished the gates; Xerxes destroyed the temples; the building of Seleucia nearly exhausted it of its inhabitants; a king of the Parthians carried a number of them into slavery, and destroyed the most beautiful parts; so that modern travelers describe it as a mass of shapeless ruins, the habitation of wild beasts. Is 14:4-6, 12-15. Je 51:41. Da 2:37, 38. *4:30. Re 14:8. *18:10, 21. when God overthrew. Heb. the overthrowing of. Ge 19:24, 25▶𝒫. Dt 29:23. Je 49:18. *50:40. Zp 2:9, 10. 2 P *2:6.`

[[Glossário do NTSK]]
