---
referencia: Is 60.21
alias:
  - Is 60:21
  - Isa 60:21
  - Isa 60.21
  - Isaiah 60:21
  - Isaiah 60.21
  - Isaías 60:21
  - Isaías 60.21

livro: Isaías
sigla: Is
indice_livro: 23
capitulo: 60
versiculo: 21
KJV: Thy people also shall be all righteous - they shall inherit the land for ever, the branch of my planting, the work of my hands, that I may be glorified. 
BKJ: Teu povo também será todo justo. Eles herdarão a terra para sempre, o renovo do meu plantio, o trabalho de minhas mãos, para que eu possa ser glorificado. 
testamento: Antigo Testamento
canon_judaico: Nevi'im
canon_cristao: Profetas Maiores
data_criacao: 2025-09-03
data_atualizacao: 
status: publicado
tags:
  - Bíblia
  - AntigoTestamento
  - ProfetasMaiores
  - Isaías

---


[[Bíblia]] ➜ [[Antigo Testamento]] ➜ [[Nevi'im]] / [[Profetas Maiores]] ➜ [[Isaías]] ➜ [[Is 60]]
[[Is 60.20|Voltar]] ❮ [[Is 60.21]] ❯ [[Is 60.22|Avançar]]

## 📜 **Texto do Versículo**

| Versão  | Texto                                                                                      |
| ------  | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| BKJ1611 | Teu povo também será todo justo. Eles herdarão a terra para sempre, o renovo do meu plantio, o trabalho de minhas mãos, para que eu possa ser glorificado.  |
| KJV     | Thy people also shall be all righteous: they shall inherit the land for ever, the branch of my planting, the work of my hands, that I may be glorified.  |

## 🔗 **Referências Cruzadas (NTSK)**

`people. Is 4:3, 4. 52:1. 62:4. Zc *14:20, 21. 2 P *3:13. Re *21:27. all righteous. T#441. Is +*27:9. 35:8-10. 45:25. 52:1. *61:3. 62:2. 65:25. Dt +30:6 (T#506). Jb +5:24. Ps +130:8. Je *31:33, 34. Ezk *36:25-29. 37:23, 24. Da +*9:24n. Na 1:15. Zp *3:13. Zc 14:20. Lk 1:68. Ro 11:25-27. Re 21:27. inherit. Ps 37:9, 11, 22. Mt +*5:5. Re 5:10. 21:7. the land. 2 Ch +*20:7. Zc 3:9. Mt +*5:5. Ac +*7:5. for ever. Heb. olam, Ex +*12:24. Note the straightforward promise here that Israel is to inherit the land forever. Such a promise requires a literal fulfillment, which has not yet been accomplished (He +*11:39); but since God cannot lie (Ti 1:2), the fulfillment is reserved for the future. This promise, repeated many times and in many ways (Is +*41:9. +*55:3. Ge +*17:8. 2 Ch +*20:7), renders the “church-kingdom” theory (often reflected in the headnotes and chapter or page running heads of various editions of the Authorized Version) utterly false, since such a theory denies the literal fulfillment of these promises to Israel and applies them to the church, or to “spiritual Israel.” The inconsistency of such a method of interpretation is readily seen when the blessings are eagerly applied to the church, but the curses are literally applied to Israel! Peters (Theocratic Kingdom, vol. 2, p. 90, footnote 5) states “The great spiritual blessings are promised to the identical people that suffered dispersion from their land, and are so repeatedly linked with a return to the same land from which they were driven, that it is folly to apply these to the Church as now constituted, and not to the time, place, and people for whom they are intended.” Peters notes that the multiplicity of prophetic detail forbids any spiritualized application to the Church: “The election of the nation, the rejection for a time, the Theocratic relationship, the absolute promises, the gathering from all countries and bringing into their own land, the personal appearance of the Messiah and effect upon them, the time of this Advent, the distressed condition of the nation, the miraculous attending the conversion and restoration, the aid tendered by Gentiles, the formation into a State, the union of the two nations, the vast multiplication, and a hundred more particulars, are all of such a nature, and so connected, that they forbid any other view.” Biblical references for each of these details of predictive prophecy named by Peters will be found in the note for Is 11:11n, or in the index, particularly entries under “Israel.” Each school of prophetic interpretation seems quite aware of the interpretative mistakes of the opposing school, while remaining unaware of its own. There are two extremes to be avoided: spiritualization and speculation. Amillennialists wisely caution against speculation, premillennialists rightly caution against spiritualization. Is 11:11n. Am +✓9:15. the branch. Is 4:2, 3. 29:23. 43:7. 45:11. 61:3. Ps *92:13. Mt *15:13. Jn 15:2. the work. Is 29:23. 43:21. Hab *3:2. Ep ✓2:10. that I. Is 43:21. 44:23. 49:3. Ep *1:6, 12. 2:7. 2 Th *1:10.`

[[Glossário do NTSK]]
