---
referencia: Tt 2.13
alias:
  - Tt 2:13
  - T 2:13
  - T 2.13
  - Ti 2:13
  - Ti 2.13
  - Tit 2:13
  - Tit 2.13
  - Tito 2:13
  - Tito 2.13
  - Titus 2:13
  - Titus 2.13
  - ti 2:13
  - ti 2.13

livro: Tito
sigla: Tt
indice_livro: 56
capitulo: 2
versiculo: 13
KJV: Looking for that blessed hope, and the glorious appearing of the great God and our Saviour Jesus Christ; 
BKJ: aguardando a abençoada esperança e o aparecimento glorioso do grande Deus e nosso Salvador Jesus Cristo, 
testamento: Novo Testamento
canon_judaico: 
canon_cristao: Epístolas Paulinas
data_criacao: 2025-09-03
data_atualizacao: 
status: publicado
tags:
  - Bíblia
  - NovoTestamento
  - EpístolasPaulinas
  - Tito

---


[[Bíblia]] ➜ [[Novo Testamento]] ➜  [[Epístolas Paulinas]] ➜ [[Tito]] ➜ [[Tt 2]]
[[Tt 2.12|Voltar]] ❮ [[Tt 2.13]] ❯ [[Tt 2.14|Avançar]]

## 📜 **Texto do Versículo**

| Versão  | Texto                                                                                      |
| ------  | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| BKJ1611 | aguardando a abençoada esperança e o aparecimento glorioso do grande Deus e nosso Salvador Jesus Cristo,  |
| KJV     | Looking for that blessed hope, and the glorious appearing of the great God and our Saviour Jesus Christ;  |

## 🔗 **Referências Cruzadas (NTSK)**

`Looking. Lk 2:25, 38g. Ac +*24:15. 1 Co +1:7. Ph *3:20, 21. 2 Ti *4:8. He 9:28. 2 P *3:+12–14. blessed hope. ƒ121R3, Ps +71:5. Is the “blessed hope” the Rapture of the church (1 Th 4:16, 17) before the Great Tribulation, or is it the appearance of Christ “in the clouds of heaven with power and great glory” after the Tribulation? Misunderstanding this verse, some interpreters fail to recognize this is a reference to Christ’s pretribulational “glorious appearing” for the Church (Mt 17:2. Jn ✓14:3. ✓17:5, 24. 1 Th ✓4:17. 1 J ✓3:2), to be carefully distinguished from His “coming in the clouds of heaven with power and great glory” (Mt 24:30) after the Great Tribulation at the open manifestation of the Second Advent. Paul presented the doctrine of the Rapture as a source of present comfort to the Thessalonians (1 Th 4:18). It could hardly be a source of comfort to them if Paul taught that they must endure the Great Tribulation first! A careful study of the details of prophecy confirms the doctrine of the imminent and secret pretribulation Rapture as the logical outcome of the proper combination of prophetic detail. Peters (Theocratic Kingdom) and other careful students of prophecy before and since have shown (1) that prophecy must be interpreted consistently in a literal manner; (2) that such a literal interpretation necessitates a distinction between the Church and Israel (Is 60:21n); (3) maintaining and observing the distinction between the Church and Israel guards against applying the Great Tribulation, called in Scripture the time of Jacob’s trouble (Je 30:7) to the Church; (4) that no event of prophecy is said to occur before the first stage of the Second Advent, for to interpose any event, such as the Great Tribulation, introduces a snare to put us off our guard (see Peters, Theocratic Kingdom, vol. 3, p. 102); (5) Scripture most certainly does predict specific events which occur prior to the last stages of the Second Advent, such as the coming of Elijah (Ml 4:5, 6), but such events occur in the interim between the first or secret stage of the advent, and its final or open public stage, and so do not precede the Rapture; (6) that the number of events revealed in Scripture to take place on “the last day” (Jn +*6:54n) when Christ returns at the second advent are simply too numerous to compress into a single event occupying but one literal twenty-four hour day; (7) that since the events are so numerous, the second advent may be divided loosely into at least two stages (see the note on the known and unknown time of Christ’s coming, Mt 24:42), which must not be misrepresented as a second and third coming, any more than prophecies of the First Advent that Christ would come as a babe to Bethlehem yet ride triumphantly to Jerusalem on a colt constitute that a first and second coming; (8) that the many passages relating to the return of Christ may be distinguished in their reference to his public manifestation in glory to the earth after the Tribulation with his saints, and the imminent return for his saints prior to the Great Tribulation; (9) careful readers have certainly noted that some passages present the world as proceeding with its affairs in very normal times (“peace and safety,” 1 Th 5:3. “all things continue,” 2 P 3:4) when the return of Christ comes as a surprise, while other passages represent the time immediately preceding his return as a time of great tribulation, suffering, and terror (Lk 21:26. Re 6:16), everyone very much aware of his advent (Mt 24:30); (10) many other lines of proof are developed in Peters’ work, including specific prophecies (Mi 7:15) which specify a period of time involving years for the accomplishment of all the related events; (11) a consideration of the prophecies of the First Advent and their manner of accomplishment will show that their fulfillment was pre-eminently literal, occupied at least 33 years, could not be compressed into a single day, yet if they were to be interpreted by the principles advocated by amillenialists for the Second Advent prophecies, we could hardly have expected a suffering Savior who was literally born of a virgin in Bethlehem, and who was crucified on a cross, for by their principles all such specific details of prophecy must not be pressed for a literal fulfillment. Ti 1:2. 3:7. Ac ✓24:15. Ro 5:5. *8:19, 24, 25, 29. 15:◐+*4, 13. Ga *5:5. Col +*1:5, 23, 27. 1 Th 2:16. He 6:18, 19. 1 P +✓1:3, 4. 1 J ✓3:3. and. ƒ93A, Ge +1:26. By Hendiadys, the “blessed hope” and “the glorious appearing” are not two things, but one: our hope is the glorious appearing (B669). The “glorious appearing” may well be one with the rapture, for Christ at the Rapture will appear gloriously for his saints. Walvoord notes, “While the appearing of the glory of Christ to the world and to Israel will not be fulfilled until the Second Coming to establish the kingdom on earth, the church will see the glory of Christ when she meets him in the air” (John F. Walvoord, The Rapture Question, p. 74). the glorious appearing. ƒ24N, Ge +17:5. The preparations required to come with his saints require Christ to have first come for his saints; therefore, the blessed hope and glorious appearing may be applied to the Rapture of the Church prior to Christ’s return in “power and great glory” (Mt 24:30), when we will be with him and share in his glory (Zc +*14:5. Ju 14, 15). The rewarding of the saints (Lk +*14:14), their appointment to positions of authority (Jn +*14:2, 3), their training and organization for posts (Mt 25:21, 23. Lk 22:29, 30) in the eternal earthly kingdom (Da 7:13. Re 11:15) of Christ, not to mention such diverse events as are comprehended in Old Testament prophecies such as Christ’s pleading with Israel in the wilderness (Ezk 20:35, 36) and speaking “comfortably unto her” (Ho 2:14), and his victorious march against his enemies on the way to Jerusalem (Is 63:1-4), then his victory over the hosts gathered against Judah and Jerusalem (Zc 9:14. 12:7, 8), all require his literal physical personal presence upon the earth (Re 11:17n. 16:5) before he comes to Zion (Is +*51:11) for the victory ascent to the Mount of Olives (Zc 14:4), which are all events that take place prior to the final public victorious manifestation of Christ in clouds of glory (Mt +*24:30) with his saints (Zc +*14:5. Col 3:4. Ju 14, 15), when every eye shall see him (Re +*1:7). Now it is just such attention to prophetic details which enables the careful student to entertain a correct view of the several aspects or stages of the second advent. Of course the contention of some that this is “grasshopper theology” or “hop-skip-and-jump” prooftexting is directly refuted by the examination of the location and extent of prophecies regarding the first advent, which are likewise widely scattered through the Old Testament, and are nowhere found in a systematic arrangement (T#1874). That Christ and the apostles taught Scripture by such a comparison of widely scattered texts is evident from the occurrence of composite quotations in the New Testament (Mt +*27:9n). Jb +*19:25-27. Is *25:9. Mt +*16:27n. ✓17:2. *25:31. *26:64. Mk 8:38. 14:62. Jn ✓14:3. ✓17:5, 24. 2 Co *4:4, 6g. Col +*1:26. *3:3, 4. 2 Th 1:7, 8. +2:8g. 1 Ti 6:13, 14. 2 Ti +*4:1, 8. He ✓9:28. 1 P *1:7, 13. 4:13. 1 J ✓3:2. Re *1:7. great God and. ƒ93A, Ge +1:26. A. T. Robertson notes that as early as 1798 Granville Sharp laid down a rule which has not since been successfully discredited, that when two nouns (either substantive or adjective, or participle) of the same case are connected by “and” (kai, in Greek), nouns of personal description (respecting office, dignity, affinity, or connection, and attributes, properties, or qualities, good or ill), if the article “the” in any of its cases precedes the first of the said nouns or participles, and is not repeated before the second noun or participle, the second noun always relates to the same person that is expressed or described by the first noun or participle: i.e. it denotes a farther description of the first named person. This principle is not claimed, however, for proper names or to the plural number. Thus “the apostle and high priest of our confession” is one person, Jesus (He 3:1). John is referred to as “your brother, and companion” in Re 1:9, a reference to just one person. Such expressions as “the God and Father” (Ro 15:6. 1 Co 15:24. 2 Co 1:3. 11:31. Ga 1:4. Ep 5:20. Ph 4:20. 1 Th 1:3. 3:11, 13. Re 1:6) and “the Lord and Father” (Ja 1:27. 3:9) are all used of one person, not two. So likewise “the Lord and Savior Jesus Christ” (2 P 2:20. 3:2) is a reference to one person. The introduction of the word “our” in 2 P 1:11 and 3:18 does not affect the idiom. Following the same principle for the identical construction in Greek for 2 P 1:1, “our God and Savior Jesus Christ” is a reference to a single person, not two. So here at Ti 2:13, the same construction is correctly rendered “our God and Savior Jesus Christ,” and the reference is to one person, not two. Attention to this construction thus yields two texts in support of the Deity of Christ that were not evident in some English translations (see Robertson, The Minister and His Greek New Testament, “The Greek Article and the Deity of Christ,” pp. 61-68). When the Greek article occurs before both nouns, two persons are meant, as “let him be unto thee as an heathen man and a publican,” two separate persons are implied (Mt 18:17, cited by William Hendrickson, Comm. on 1-2 Timothy and Titus, p. 374). Those who deny the validity of this grammatical principle are faced with the problem that if two persons are meant, then Paul is predicting the simultaneous glorious advent of both the Father and the Son at Christ’s second coming. Although the advent of the Father is supportable from other prophecies (Da ◐7:22. Zc ✓14:5. Ep *1:10), the simultaneous advent of the Father and the Son is not usually incorporated into the prophetic system of those who understand this passage to refer to two persons. Ne 1:5. 9:32. Da 2:45. 9:4. Lk *9:26. Jn *1:1. +*20:28. Ac +*20:28. Ro +*9:5. Ph *2:6. Col *2:9. 2 Th 1:12g. He +*1:8. 2 P ✓1:1g. our Savior. Ti *3:4, 6. Ne +*9:6. Is ✓43:11. Ezk 37:23. Ho 1:7. Mt *1:21. Ac 3:26. 2 Ti +1:10. 2 P +*3:18. 1 J 4:14.`

[[Glossário do NTSK]]
