---
referencia: 1Jo 2.19
alias:
  - 1Jo 2:19
  - 1 J 2:19
  - 1 J 2.19
  - 1 Jhn 2:19
  - 1 Jhn 2.19
  - 1 Jn 2:19
  - 1 Jn 2.19
  - 1 Jo 2:19
  - 1 Jo 2.19
  - 1 John 2:19
  - 1 John 2.19
  - 1 João 2:19
  - 1 João 2.19
  - 1J 2:19
  - 1J 2.19
  - 1Jhn 2:19
  - 1Jhn 2.19
  - 1Jn 2:19
  - 1Jn 2.19
  - 1Joh 2:19
  - 1Joh 2.19
  - 1John 2:19
  - 1John 2.19
  - 1st John 2:19
  - 1st John 2.19
  - 1° João 2:19
  - 1° João 2.19
  - First John 2:19
  - First John 2.19
  - I Jhn 2:19
  - I Jhn 2.19
  - I Jn 2:19
  - I Jn 2.19
  - I Jo 2:19
  - I Jo 2.19
  - I Joh 2:19
  - I Joh 2.19
  - I John 2:19
  - I John 2.19
  - IJo 2:19
  - IJo 2.19
  - Primeira João 2:19
  - Primeira João 2.19

livro: 1 João
sigla: 1Jo
indice_livro: 62
capitulo: 2
versiculo: 19
KJV: They went out from us, but they were not of us; for if they had been of us, they would no doubt have continued with us - but they went out, that they might be made manifest that they were not all of us. 
BKJ: Eles saíram de nós, mas não eram de nós; porque, se fossem de nós, sem dúvida teriam continuado conosco; mas eles saíram para que se manifestasse que todos eles não eram de nós. 
testamento: Novo Testamento
canon_judaico: 
canon_cristao: Epístolas Gerais
data_criacao: 2025-09-03
data_atualizacao: 
status: publicado
tags:
  - Bíblia
  - NovoTestamento
  - EpístolasGerais
  - 1João

---


[[Bíblia]] ➜ [[Novo Testamento]] ➜  [[Epístolas Gerais]] ➜ [[1 João]] ➜ [[1Jo 2]]
[[1Jo 2.18|Voltar]] ❮ [[1Jo 2.19]] ❯ [[1Jo 2.20|Avançar]]

## 📜 **Texto do Versículo**

| Versão  | Texto                                                                                      |
| ------  | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| BKJ1611 | Eles saíram de nós, mas não eram de nós; porque, se fossem de nós, sem dúvida teriam continuado conosco; mas eles saíram para que se manifestasse que todos eles não eram de nós.  |
| KJV     | They went out from us, but they were not of us; for if they had been of us, they would no doubt have continued with us: but they went out, that they might be made manifest that they were not all of us.  |

## 🔗 **Referências Cruzadas (NTSK)**

`They. i.e., the antichrists, the exponents of Gnostic teaching (A. T. Robertson, Word Pictures, vol. 6, p. 215, on ver. 18). went out. Dt 13:13. Ps 41:9. Mt 13:20, 21. Mk 4:5, 6, 16, 17. Lk +*8:13. Jn 15:2. Ac 15:24. +20:30. 2 P 2:20, 21. Ju 19. from us. “From us” and “of us” are the same idiom in Greek, the preposition ek with hemon, the preposition used in different senses, expressed by A. T. Robertson “they went out from our membership” and “they were not of us in spirit and life.” Robertson points out that a similar difference in the meaning of the preposition ek is seen in Jn 17:14, “of the world” in the sense of likeness, and Jn 17:15, “out of the world” in the sense of origin (Word Pictures, vol. 6, p. 215). See the related notes (Ac 2:38n. *8:39n). not of us. Mt +*12:44. 22:11, etc. Ro 9:6. for if. ✓ƒ184B, Mt +11:21. Jb 17:9. Ps 37:28. 125:1, 2. Je *32:38-40. Mt 24:24. Mk 13:22. Jn 4:14. ✓6:37-39. ✓10:28-30. +17:12. 2 Ti 2:10, 19. 1 P *1:2-5. Ju 1. have continued. Le =22:10. 1 Co +*15:2. Col +*1:23. He 6:11. +*10:39. they went out. ƒ63I1D, Nu +26:4. Here the ellipsis is correctly supplied in the A.V. they might. 1 J *3:9, 10. Ro *9:6. 11:5, 6. 1 Co ✓11:19. 2 Ti 3:9. He +*10:39. they were not all. A common error in the application of this verse is to assert that all those who turn back (1 Ti +*4:1n) from true faith in Christ were never saved, and were never true believers in the first place. This view is not in accord with the rest of Scripture, however, for it fails to (1) recognize the instances where true believers “stopped believing” (Lk +*8:13. 1 Ti +*1:19, 20); (2) recognize the seriousness of the warnings against apostasy throughout God’s Word (1 Co +*15:2), and (3) define apostasy biblically or logically, for one cannot fall from a faith which was never possessed (1 Ti +*4:1n. He 6:4-6. 2 P 2:20). While John applies his statement to “all,” the “all” refers in context specifically to false teachers, who taught the Gnostic heresy, whom he called antichrists. No doubt many false teachers of today deserve this identification, as Robertson suggests, but in no way can this passage be stretched to include all individuals who have ever turned away or apostatized from Christ, to assert that none of them were ever really saved. On other themes careful interpreters rightly assert that we must take into account all Scripture which bears on a subject, and arrive at a position which agrees with the whole body of applicable evidence. They properly caution not to overgeneralize or explain all possibilities on the basis of a single prooftext. This very interpretive fallacy has fostered a whole host of error ranging from minor matters of doctrine to absolute heresy, and is used by some to support: (1) sinless perfection: one who is born of God cannot commit sin (1 J 3:9); (2) baptismal regeneration (Jn 3:5); (3) ritual water baptism required for salvation (Ac 2:38n); (4) baptism unto repentance (Ac 2:38); (5) ritual water baptism symbolizes the death, burial, and resurrection of Christ (Ro 6:4); (6) the alleged spiritual nature of the kingdom of God (Lk 17:21); (7) the “church” as “spiritual Israel” has replaced natural Israel in the plan of God (Ro 2:28, 29. Ga 6:16); (8) there is no conscious existence after death (Ps +*146:4. Ec +*9:5); (9) no one goes to heaven at death to be with Christ (Jn 3:13. Ac 2:34. 1 Co 15:50. Ph 1:23n), (10) but sleeps until the resurrection (Da +*12:2n), (11) unaware of any passing of time, explaining the sense of going immediately to be with Christ (2 Co 5:8. Ph 1:23n); (12) since there is only one God (Dt 6:4), the Father (1 Co 8:4, 6), Jesus cannot be God because he called God the Father his God (Jn 20:17), and the only true God (Jn 17:3), thus excluding himself; (13) God dispenses his truth by means of his “faithful and true servant,” the one true church, and outside of this divinely provided earthly visible organization there can be no salvation (Mt 24:45); (14) No individual has the right to interpret the Bible for himself, for Scripture is not “of any private interpretation” (2 P 1:20). The most apt description of this interpretive error I have found is that of Lewis Sperry Chafer, who wrote “A certain type of mind, however, seems able to construct all its confidence on an erroneous interpretation of one passage and to be uninfluenced by the overwhelming body of Scripture which contradicts that interpretation” (Systematic Theology, vol. 3, p. 380). Mt +*7:21-23.`

[[Glossário do NTSK]]
