---
referencia: Jo 20.6
alias:
  - Jo 20:6
  - Jhn 20:6
  - Jhn 20.6
  - Jn 20:6
  - Jn 20.6
  - Joh 20:6
  - Joh 20.6
  - John 20:6
  - John 20.6
  - Joã 20:6
  - Joã 20.6
  - João 20:6
  - João 20.6
  - Jã 20:6
  - Jã 20.6

livro: João
sigla: Jo
indice_livro: 43
capitulo: 20
versiculo: 6
KJV: Then cometh Simon Peter following him, and went into the sepulchre, and seeth the linen clothes lie, 
BKJ: Então, chegou Simão Pedro, que o seguia, e entrou no sepulcro, e viu os panos de linho caídos, 
testamento: Novo Testamento
canon_judaico: 
canon_cristao: Evangelhos
data_criacao: 2025-09-03
data_atualizacao: 
status: publicado
tags:
  - Bíblia
  - NovoTestamento
  - Evangelhos
  - João

---


[[Bíblia]] ➜ [[Novo Testamento]] ➜  [[Evangelhos]] ➜ [[João]] ➜ [[Jo 20]]
[[Jo 20.5|Voltar]] ❮ [[Jo 20.6]] ❯ [[Jo 20.7|Avançar]]

## 📜 **Texto do Versículo**

| Versão  | Texto                                                                                      |
| ------  | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| BKJ1611 | Então, chegou Simão Pedro, que o seguia, e entrou no sepulcro, e viu os panos de linho caídos,  |
| KJV     | Then cometh Simon Peter following him, and went into the sepulchre, and seeth the linen clothes lie,  |

## 🔗 **Referências Cruzadas (NTSK)**

`Then cometh. Jn 6:67-69. 18:17, 25-27. 21:7, 15-17. Mt 16:15, 16. Lk 22:31, 32. went into. Gr. eiseelthen eis. To signify the actual entering into a place, notice Greek repeats the preposition eis, into, by attaching it as a prefix to the verb, and repeating it after the verb. This grammatical construction serves to distinguish the mere approach to a place, as distinct from entering into it. Examples of this construction may be seen at Mt 8:5 (of entering the city Capernaum); 12:4 (of David entering the house of God); 24:38 (of Noah entering the ark). Mk 1:21 (of Jesus entering into the synagogue); 2:1; 3:1; *5:13 (of unclean spirits entering the swine); 7:6; *7:17 (into a house), 24; 11:2 (entered into a village); 11:11 (entered Jerusalem and the temple); 16:5 (entering into the sepulchre). Lk 1:40. 4:38 (entered Simon’s house). 6:6; 7:1, 44; 8:30 (of demons entering the man), 33 (demons entering into swine); 9:34 (entered a cloud on the mount of transfiguration), 52 (entered a Samaritan village); 10:38; 17:12, 27 (Noah entering the ark); 22:3 (Satan entered Judas), 10. Jn 4:38 (entered into their labors); 13:27 (Satan entered Judas); 18:1 (entered the garden of Gesthemene), 33 (Pilate entered the judgment hall). Ac 3:2, 8; 5:21; 9:17 (Ananias entered into the house where Saul was); 10:24; 11:8 (of Peter, who states no unclean food ever entered his mouth), 12; 16:40; 18:19; 19:30 (entered in unto the people); 21:8 (entered house of Philip), 26 (entered the temple); 23:16 (entered the castle); 25:23. Ro 5:12 (sin entered the world); He 4:6, 10 (enter into his rest); 9:12, 24. Ja 5:4 (entered into the ears). 2 J 7. The significance of all this is that those who assert that baptism is not by immersion claim that this expression is never used of going into the water for baptism: the expressions used simply mean they went down to and came up from the water, but never entered into the water in the sense of being immersed. Thus the Reverend G. W. Hughey writes “When the Greeks wished to specifically express motion into a place by the force of the preposition eis, they used it both before and after the verb. Instances of this often occur, as ‘eiselthen eis,’ or ‘eiserchomai eis.’ We have numerous examples of this usage, both in the New Testament and in the Septuagint. We have a striking example of this usage in John’s account of the resurrection of our Lord: John 20:4, ‘and came first to (eis) the sepulchre,’ (‘elthe protos eis mnemion’); verse 6, ‘Then cometh Simon Peter following him and he went into the sepulchre,’ ‘eiselthen eis to mnemion.’ ” And again, “In not a single example of its use with baptidzo do we have this usage. This is a most significant fact” (The Scriptural Mode of Christian Baptism, pp. 128, 129).`

[[Glossário do NTSK]]
