---
referencia: Jo 20.29
alias:
  - Jo 20:29
  - Jhn 20:29
  - Jhn 20.29
  - Jn 20:29
  - Jn 20.29
  - Joh 20:29
  - Joh 20.29
  - John 20:29
  - John 20.29
  - Joã 20:29
  - Joã 20.29
  - João 20:29
  - João 20.29
  - Jã 20:29
  - Jã 20.29

livro: João
sigla: Jo
indice_livro: 43
capitulo: 20
versiculo: 29
KJV: Jesus saith unto him, Thomas, because thou hast seen me, thou hast believed - blessed are they that have not seen, and yet have believed. 
BKJ: Disse-lhe Jesus - Tomé, porque me viste, tu creste; abençoados são os que não viram, e creram. 
testamento: Novo Testamento
canon_judaico: 
canon_cristao: Evangelhos
data_criacao: 2025-09-03
data_atualizacao: 
status: publicado
tags:
  - Bíblia
  - NovoTestamento
  - Evangelhos
  - João

---


[[Bíblia]] ➜ [[Novo Testamento]] ➜  [[Evangelhos]] ➜ [[João]] ➜ [[Jo 20]]
[[Jo 20.28|Voltar]] ❮ [[Jo 20.29]] ❯ [[Jo 20.30|Avançar]]

## 📜 **Texto do Versículo**

| Versão  | Texto                                                                                      |
| ------  | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| BKJ1611 | Disse-lhe Jesus: Tomé, porque me viste, tu creste; abençoados são os que não viram, e creram.  |
| KJV     | Jesus saith unto him, Thomas, because thou hast seen me, thou hast believed: blessed are they that have not seen, and yet have believed.  |

## 🔗 **Referências Cruzadas (NTSK)**

`Jesus saith. Notice what Jesus did not say: he did not disclaim or deny the truth of the confession Thomas just made. Thomas called Jesus God. If Jesus is not God, then here is a most dreadful and unexplained omission of needful correction on the part of Jesus, who by not correcting the impression made by this confession is guilty of perpetrating an untruth on all future generations of believers who receive this unexplained testimony. But such failure on the part of Jesus is impossible, as being entirely out of character with his absolute truthfulness (Jn 14:2, 6). Peter abruptly declined the well-meaning worship of Cornelius (Ac 10:25, 26). Paul and Barnabas were acclaimed as gods come down in the likeness of men at Lystra, but they strenuously denied this ascription of deity to themselves (Ac 14:11-18). When John fell down to worship before the feet of the angel which showed him things to come, the angel rebuked him, and refused to receive worship (Re 22:8, 9). But Herod, acclaimed as a god, was eaten of worms for not giving the glory to the true God (Ac 12:23). Jesus suffered no such rebuke from the Father, thus the Father confesses the truth of the claims of his Son, and those who refuse the truth of the testimony of Thomas are refusing to “honor the Son, even as they honor the Father.” “He that honoreth not the Son, honoreth not the Father which hath sent him” (Jn ✓5:23). Jesus did not correct, but commended the testimony of Thomas, as the following words plainly show. seen. ƒ171J15, Ge +42:1. hast believed. ver. 31. Jn 5:44. blessed. ver. 8. Jn 4:48. Mt 16:16, 17. Lk 1:45. 2 Co ✓5:7. He *11:1, 27, 39. 1 P ✓1:8. have believed. The eye-witness testimony of Thomas satisfies for all time the need for testimony to the physical resurrection of Christ from the dead. No further continuing or repeated experience is necessary to establish the fact of the resurrection, for it is an established principle of law that eyewitness testimony, preserved in writing, is valid for all time, and the event or circumstance does not need to be repeated. This answers the frequent plea of skeptics that they have not been given the same opportunity to verify the resurrection offered to Thomas. That the doubt of Thomas was completely removed is sufficient testimony to remove all similar doubt on the part of all future skeptics, so that they are without excuse. Ro ✓10:9, 10.`

[[Glossário do NTSK]]
