---
referencia: At 12.12
alias:
  - At 12:12
  - Ac 12:12
  - Ac 12.12
  - Act 12:12
  - Act 12.12
  - Acts 12:12
  - Acts 12.12
  - Atos 12:12
  - Atos 12.12

livro: Atos
sigla: At
indice_livro: 44
capitulo: 12
versiculo: 12
KJV: And when he had considered the thing, he came to the house of Mary the mother of John, whose surname was Mark; where many were gathered together praying. 
BKJ: E ele, considerando isto, foi à casa de Maria, mãe de João, cujo sobrenome era Marcos, onde muitos estavam reunidos e oravam. 
testamento: Novo Testamento
canon_judaico: 
canon_cristao: Atos dos Apóstolos
data_criacao: 2025-09-03
data_atualizacao: 
status: publicado
tags:
  - Bíblia
  - NovoTestamento
  - AtosdosApóstolos
  - Atos

---


[[Bíblia]] ➜ [[Novo Testamento]] ➜  [[Atos dos Apóstolos]] ➜ [[Atos]] ➜ [[At 12]]
[[At 12.11|Voltar]] ❮ [[At 12.12]] ❯ [[At 12.13|Avançar]]

## 📜 **Texto do Versículo**

| Versão  | Texto                                                                                      |
| ------  | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| BKJ1611 | E ele, considerando isto, foi à casa de Maria, mãe de João, cujo sobrenome era Marcos, onde muitos estavam reunidos e oravam.  |
| KJV     | And when he had considered the thing, he came to the house of Mary the mother of John, whose surname was Mark; where many were gathered together praying.  |

## 🔗 **Referências Cruzadas (NTSK)**

`considered. Ac 14:6g. he came. Ac 4:23. 16:40. house of Mary. There is an indirect clue not furnished in Acts that Barnabas and Mark are related to one another, for in Col 4:10 it is mentioned that Mark is the son of the sister of Barnabas. The history (Ac 15:37, 39) mentions the fact of Barnabas’s adherence to Mark, but not the reason of it; this is supplied by Paul incidentally in his epistle: Mark was his near kinsman (Col 4:10). Mark’s mother, thus referred to, must have been a person of some repute. So when Peter was delivered from prison, he went to her house, “where many were gathered together praying.” These are undesigned coincidences, depicting real transactions among real persons, marking the authenticity and historicity of these corresponding records. Paley notes that this “air of reality and business, as well as of seriousness and conviction, which pervades the whole” of Paul’s letters and Luke’s history are qualities that reveal on nearly every page “the language of a mind actuated by real occasions, and operating upon real circumstances.” This “air of reality and business,” of “seriousness and conviction,” argues powerfully of the truthfulness of the record for anyone who is sensible to these qualities. This proof of authenticity is “not to be deemed occult or imaginary because it is incapable of being drawn out in words, or of being conveyed to the apprehension of the reader in any other way than by sending him to the books themselves” (Horae Paulinae, p. 197). Paley further notes that Paul’s epistles “are connected with his History by their particularity, and by the numerous circumstances which are found in them.” The History and Epistles are independent documents unknown to, or at least unconsulted by, each other. Yet the substance, and frequently very minute details of the History are recognized in the Epistles by allusions and references. These allusions and references cannot be imputed to design, nor, without a foundation in truth, be accounted for by accident. They are “hints and expressions and single words dropping as it were fortuitously from the pen of the writer, or drawn forth, each by the occasion proper to the place in which it occurs, but widely removed from any view to consistency or agreement. These, we know, are effects which reality naturally produces, but which, without reality at the bottom, can hardly be conceived to exist” (Horae Paulinae, pp. 197, 198). No forger would devise them, for undesigned coincidences, like these found in Scripture, being difficult to observe, would be largely unnoticed by the great mass of readers and students, and could not serve his purpose. I have made these available once again to Bible students in this new edition of the Treasury of Scripture Knowledge because of their evidential value for apologetics, and because their very nature relates to the kind of close Bible study which the cross references in the Treaury make possible. The alert student will find many on his own, and as R.A. Torrey’s “Introduction” to previous editions of the Treasury states, the Treasury “greatly strengthens faith” and “emphasises the truth by bringing in a multitude of witnesses” (see related notes on ver. 17n. Ac 1:19n. 11:29n. 17:2n, 16n. 18:2n, 5n, 18n. 19:20n, 21n. 20:2n, 3n, 4n, 22n, 25n, 34n. 21:21n, 26n. 22:3n, 18n. 28:20n. Mk 6:27n. Ro 15:19n, 26n. 16:3n, 4n, 23n. 2 Co 8:19n). John. ver. 25. Ac 13:5, 13. 15:37-39. Mk ?14:51n. Col *4:10. 2 Ti 4:11. Phm 24. Mark. i.e. shining, polite; a defense, ❅S#3138g. ver. 25. Ac 15:37, 39. Col 4:10, Marcus. 2 Ti 4:11. Phm 24. 1 P 5:13. where. ver. 5. Is +*65:24. Da *9:21-23. Mt +*18:19, 20. 1 J ✓5:14, 15.`

[[Glossário do NTSK]]
