---
referencia: At 10.47
alias:
  - At 10:47
  - Ac 10:47
  - Ac 10.47
  - Act 10:47
  - Act 10.47
  - Acts 10:47
  - Acts 10.47
  - Atos 10:47
  - Atos 10.47

livro: Atos
sigla: At
indice_livro: 44
capitulo: 10
versiculo: 47
KJV: Can any man forbid water, that these should not be baptized, which have received the Holy Ghost as well as we? 
BKJ: Pode algum homem impedir a água, para que não sejam batizados estes que também receberam, como nós, o Espírito Santo? 
testamento: Novo Testamento
canon_judaico: 
canon_cristao: Atos dos Apóstolos
data_criacao: 2025-09-03
data_atualizacao: 
status: publicado
tags:
  - Bíblia
  - NovoTestamento
  - AtosdosApóstolos
  - Atos

---


[[Bíblia]] ➜ [[Novo Testamento]] ➜  [[Atos dos Apóstolos]] ➜ [[Atos]] ➜ [[At 10]]
[[At 10.46|Voltar]] ❮ [[At 10.47]] ❯ [[At 10.48|Avançar]]

## 📜 **Texto do Versículo**

| Versão  | Texto                                                                                      |
| ------  | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| BKJ1611 | Pode algum homem impedir a água, para que não sejam batizados estes que também receberam, como nós, o Espírito Santo?  |
| KJV     | Can any man forbid water, that these should not be baptized, which have received the Holy Ghost as well as we?  |

## 🔗 **Referências Cruzadas (NTSK)**

`Can any. ƒ85C, Ge +18:14. “This event settles the question of Gentile baptism. How can anyone refuse water-baptism to those on whom God has already bestowed the baptism of the Spirit?” (Ernst Haenchen, The Acts of the Apostles, p. 359). “The form of interrogation here used (with meeti) is equivalent to a strong negation. ‘Surely no one will now venture to forbid, etc.’ (Compare Mt 7:16. Mk 4:21. Lk 6:37. Jn 4:49.) The same verb which, applied to persons, means forbid, when applied to things, is better rendered by withhold, as in Lk 6:29, where to take is supplied by the translators” (J. A. Alexander, Commentary on the Acts of the Apostles, vol. 1, p. 417). forbid. Just as Abraham was justified by faith, having believed God, and had righteousness imputed to him (Ge 15:6) before the institution of circumcision (Ge 17:10, 23. 21:4. Ro 4:10), and before any other associated outward act of obedience on his part (Ge 22:12-18. Ro *4:2, 3. He ◐11:8 w Ge 12:1, 4), and is so accounted “the father of all them that believe” (Ro 4:11), so Cornelius and his household believed and received remission of sins, as evidenced by the Holy Spirit coming upon him and all his, before they underwent the rite of water baptism. This dismisses the view of those who believe that ritual water baptism is essential to salvation (Mk 16:16n. Jn 3:5) or the remission of sins (Ac 2:38n), for Cornelius and his household received the Holy Spirit on the basis of their faith before they were water baptized. Since there is no evidence in the New Testament that after Christ’s resurrection any unsaved individual was the recipient of the Holy Spirit, it can be confidently affirmed that Cornelius and his household were saved before experiencing water baptism; indeed, the indwelling of the Holy Spirit is the mark of a true believer (Ro +*8:9, 11), and the case of Cornelius proves that the Holy Spirit is received before the rite of water baptism. Ac ✓8:12, 36. *11:15-17. *15:8, 9. Ge 17:24-26. Ro ✓4:11, 12. *10:12. water. “Water” in Greek has the article, indicating a definite amount of water set aside, as in a pitcher or other vessel, for the use of baptism. Shedd notes “the phraseology implies that the baptismal water was brought into the room. ‘Can any man forbid the water (to hudor), that these should not be baptized?’ This phraseology would be unnatural, if the water in question were in a river, pond, or reservoir; but natural, if it were in a vessel” (W. G. Shedd, Dogmatic Theology, vol. 2, p. 584). which. ver. 44, 45. Ac +8:16. 11:17. 15:8. Ghost. Gr. pneuma, ƒ121A1, Lk +1:17n. as we. Ac 2:4.`

[[Glossário do NTSK]]
