---
referencia: At 20.28
alias:
  - At 20:28
  - Ac 20:28
  - Ac 20.28
  - Act 20:28
  - Act 20.28
  - Acts 20:28
  - Acts 20.28
  - Atos 20:28
  - Atos 20.28

livro: Atos
sigla: At
indice_livro: 44
capitulo: 20
versiculo: 28
KJV: Take heed therefore unto yourselves, and to all the flock, over the which the Holy Ghost hath made you overseers, to feed the church of God, which he hath purchased with his own blood. 
BKJ: Tenham cuidado, pois, de vós mesmos, e de todo o rebanho, sobre o qual o Espírito Santo vos constituiu supervisores, para alimentardes a igreja de Deus, que ele comprou com seu próprio sangue. 
testamento: Novo Testamento
canon_judaico: 
canon_cristao: Atos dos Apóstolos
data_criacao: 2025-09-03
data_atualizacao: 
status: publicado
tags:
  - Bíblia
  - NovoTestamento
  - AtosdosApóstolos
  - Atos

---


[[Bíblia]] ➜ [[Novo Testamento]] ➜  [[Atos dos Apóstolos]] ➜ [[Atos]] ➜ [[At 20]]
[[At 20.27|Voltar]] ❮ [[At 20.28]] ❯ [[At 20.29|Avançar]]

## 📜 **Texto do Versículo**

| Versão  | Texto                                                                                      |
| ------  | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| BKJ1611 | Tenham cuidado, pois, de vós mesmos, e de todo o rebanho, sobre o qual o Espírito Santo vos constituiu supervisores, para alimentardes a igreja de Deus, que ele comprou com seu próprio sangue.  |
| KJV     | Take heed therefore unto yourselves, and to all the flock, over the which the Holy Ghost hath made you overseers, to feed the church of God, which he hath purchased with his own blood.  |

## 🔗 **Referências Cruzadas (NTSK)**

`Take heed. Ac +5:35. Dt 12:30. 2 Ch *19:6, 7. Mk 13:9. Lk *21:34. 1 Co ✓9:26, 27. Col *4:17. 1 Ti +*4:16. He ✓12:15. all the flock. ver. 29. SS 1:7, 8. Is *40:11. 63:11. Je 13:17, 20. 31:10. Ezk 34:31. Mi 7:14. Lk +*12:32. Jn +*10:16. Ep 4:11. 1 P *5:2-4. over the which. Ac *13:2. *14:23. 1 Co *12:8-11, 28-31. 1 Ti 4:14. Ghost. Gr. pneuma, Mt +3:16. Mt +12:32. made you. Ac 8:29n. 1 Co *12:8-11, 28. overseers. ver. *17. Ph 1:1. 1 Ti *3:2. *5:17. Ti *1:5, 7, 9. He *13:17. 1 P *2:25g. to feed. Ps 78:70-72. Pr *10:21. Is *40:11. Je +*3:15. Ezk 34:3. Mi *5:4. 7:14. Zc 11:4. Mt *2:6g. Jn *21:15-17. Ep *4:11, 12. 1 P *5:2, 3. the church. 1 Co 1:2. *10:32. 11:22. 15:9. Ga 1:13. 1 Ti *3:5, 15, 16. The twelve occurrences of “church of God” and similar “churches of God” or “church of the living God” are: Ac 20:28. 1 Co *1:2. 10:32. 11:◐16, 22. 15:9. 2 Co 1:1. Ga 1:13. 1 Th ◐2:14. 2 Th ◐1:4. 1 Ti 3:5, ◐15. This can by no means be taken to be the authorized name of God’s one true church, as claimed by some who would take this title to themselves. There are a number of other church titles in the New Testament (Ro *16:4, 5, 16. 1 Co 16:1, 19. 2 C 8:1. Ga 1:2, 22. Col 4:16. 1 Th 1:1. He *12:23. 2 J +*10. Re 22:16). In thirty-eight chapters, Ambrose Serle discusses as many additional more general titles of the church in his volume The Church of God. of God. Manuscript authority for this reading is about equally divided between it and “of the Lord.” Alford, who favored the reading “the Lord” in his first two editions, changed to “of God” in his last edition, and gives significant reasons to support his change of view. In favor of regarding “church of the Lord” as the original it may be argued (1) some busy scribe may have written at the side, as so often occurs, “God,” and over time this gloss by degrees would become adopted into the text and supersede the original word, or become combined with it; (2) since the expression “church of the Lord” is not found elsewhere in the writings of Paul, this reading would have been corrected to make it conform to the very usual one, “church of God”; (3) possible, but very unlikely, the alteration may have been made solely in the interests of orthodoxy. In favor of regarding “church of God” as the original reading, Alford states “If ‘God’ was the original, but one reason can be given why it should have been altered to ‘Lord,’ and that one sure to have operated. It would stand as a bulwark against Arianism, an assertion which no skill could evade, which must therefore be modified. If ‘God’ stood in the text originally, it was sure to be altered to ‘Lord.’ The converse was not sure, nor indeed likely, from similar reasons, the passage offering no stumblingblock to orthodoxy.” In further support of “church of God,” Pauline usage favors this reading; is it probable that Paul would here use an expression which he or the other apostles are not recorded as having used anywhere else? In most of the places where Paul uses “church of God,” he uses it in a precisely similar manner, in a position of peculiar solemnity or as the consummation of a climax (1 Co 10:32. 15:9. Ga 1:13. 1 Ti 3:5, 15). The present passage loses by the substitution of “Lord” the peculiar emphasis which its structure and context seem to require. Therefore, since it is more likely that the alteration should have been to “Lord” than to “God,” more likely that the speaker would have used “God” than “Lord,” and more consonant to the evidently emphatic position of the word, Alford states he has decided for the reading of the received text, “church of God” (Greek Testament, vol. 2, p. 230, 231, on Ac 20:28). Bengel favored “church of God” as the original reading, but notes significantly that if “Lord” is to be received into the text, it means, parallel to Old Testament usage, the “Church of Jehovah” (Word Studies, vol. 1, p. 888). F. H. A. Scrivener notes that the Patristic evidence slightly favors “church of God;” a large number of MSS. support the conflate reading “church of the Lord and of God,” a reading which vouches for the presence of “God” in the earliest codices. The preponderance in favor of “church of God,” “undoubtedly the harder form, is very marked,” and coupled with the reasoning of Alford, there remains very little room for hesitation (Introduction to the Criticism of the New Testament, vol. 2, pp. 374-377). Frederick Nolan relates that some of the editions of the church fathers have been “notoriously corrupted, as it is conceived, by the Arians.” But he shows that the genuine works of Ignatius follows the Byzantine text, “church of God.” Ireneus follows the received text, for he is discussing the subject of the mysteries of the Church (Iren. adv. Haer. Lib. iii. cap. xiv. p. 201). “Now, as there was no mystery in our Lord’s purchasing the Church with his blood, but a great mystery in ‘God’s purchasing it with his own blood,’ Ireneus’s allegation of this passage appears to me to be perfectly irrelevant, unless that primitive father read, with Ignatius and the Vulgar Greek, ‘the church of God, which he purchased with his own blood’ ” (An Inquiry into the Integrity of the Greek Vulgate, or Received Text of the New Testament, pp. 516-518). or, the Lord. Lk +11:16. Mt *16:18. Ro +16:16. which he. Ps ✓74:2. Is *53:10-12. Ep *1:7, 14. Col *1:14. He *9:12-14. 1 P *1:18, 19. 2:9. Re *5:9. purchased. Le =22:11. Lk 17:33g (“to save,” alternate reading, “to gain”). Ro 8:32. 1 Co 6:20. 1 Ti 3:13g. 1 P 1:18, 19. 2 P 2:1. with his own blood. ƒ117, Ge +19:8. Scrivener protests strongly against the interpretation found in Darby’s New Translation, which renders this phrase “the blood of his own,” and the suggestion of Dr. Hort (Notes, p. 99), who would render “through the blood that was His own,” i.e. as being His Son’s, for even Hort admits, “this general sense, if indicated, is not sufficiently expressed in the text as it stands” (Scrivener, Introduction, vol. 2, p. 377). J. H. Moulton supports such a rendering, suggesting the grammatical usage is similar to the use of o idios without a noun expressed, as in such passages as Jn 1:11; 13:1; Ac 4:23; 24:23 (Grammar, vol. 1, p. 90). Such a rendering, Nigel Turner asserts, is a “theological expedient,” and is not the natural way to take the Greek (Grammatical Insights, p. 15). If this had been the intended force of the statement, either Paul or Luke would have placed “Son” in the text. A. T. Robertson explains “Through the agency of (dia) his own blood. Whose blood? If tou theou (God) is correct, as it is, then Jesus is here called “God” who shed his own blood for the flock. It will not do to say that Paul did not call Jesus God, for we have Ro 9:5; Col 2:9 and Ti 2:13 where he does that very thing, besides Col 1:15-20 and Ph 2:5-11” (Word Pictures, vol. 3, p. 353). B. B. Warfield notes, with regard to citing Ro 9:5 and Ti 2:13, “when it is objected that these are disputed passages, it is just to remind the objector that this will exclude his original statement as well as our rebuttal of it” (Textual Criticism, p. 188), a fallacy in logic akin to asserting “there are no absolutes,” which, if true, negates the assertion. Mt *1:23. Jn +✓20:28. 1 Co 6:20. Ep 1:7. 1 Th 1:10. He *9:12, 14. 1 P +*1:18, 19. 1 J *1:7. Re +*5:9.`

[[Glossário do NTSK]]
