---
referencia: 1Co 15.24
alias:
  - 1Co 15:24
  - 1 C 15:24
  - 1 C 15.24
  - 1 Co 15:24
  - 1 Co 15.24
  - 1 Cor 15:24
  - 1 Cor 15.24
  - 1 Corinthians 15:24
  - 1 Corinthians 15.24
  - 1 Coríntios 15:24
  - 1 Coríntios 15.24
  - 1Cor 15:24
  - 1Cor 15.24
  - 1Corinthians 15:24
  - 1Corinthians 15.24
  - 1Coríntios 15:24
  - 1Coríntios 15.24
  - 1o Cor 15:24
  - 1o Cor 15.24
  - 1o Coríntios 15:24
  - 1o Coríntios 15.24
  - 1st Corinthians 15:24
  - 1st Corinthians 15.24
  - First Corinthians 15:24
  - First Corinthians 15.24
  - I Co 15:24
  - I Co 15.24
  - I Cor 15:24
  - I Cor 15.24
  - I Corinthians 15:24
  - I Corinthians 15.24
  - I Coríntios 15:24
  - I Coríntios 15.24
  - Primeiro Cor 15:24
  - Primeiro Cor 15.24
  - Primeiro Coríntios 15:24
  - Primeiro Coríntios 15.24

livro: 1 Coríntios
sigla: 1Co
indice_livro: 46
capitulo: 15
versiculo: 24
KJV: Then cometh the end, when he shall have delivered up the kingdom to God, even the Father; when he shall have put down all rule and all authority and power. 
BKJ: Então virá o fim, quando ele tiver entregue o reino a Deus, ao Pai, e quando ele tiver derrubado todo o governo, e toda a autoridade, e poder. 
testamento: Novo Testamento
canon_judaico: 
canon_cristao: Epístolas Paulinas
data_criacao: 2025-09-03
data_atualizacao: 
status: publicado
tags:
  - Bíblia
  - NovoTestamento
  - EpístolasPaulinas
  - 1Coríntios

---


[[Bíblia]] ➜ [[Novo Testamento]] ➜  [[Epístolas Paulinas]] ➜ [[1 Coríntios]] ➜ [[1Co 15]]
[[1Co 15.23|Voltar]] ❮ [[1Co 15.24]] ❯ [[1Co 15.25|Avançar]]

## 📜 **Texto do Versículo**

| Versão  | Texto                                                                                      |
| ------  | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| BKJ1611 | Então virá o fim, quando ele tiver entregue o reino a Deus, ao Pai, e quando ele tiver derrubado todo o governo, e toda a autoridade, e poder.  |
| KJV     | Then cometh the end, when he shall have delivered up the kingdom to God, even the Father; when he shall have put down all rule and all authority and power.  |

## 🔗 **Referências Cruzadas (NTSK)**

`Then. ƒ157, ver. 6. cometh the end. Care must be taken not to assume that there is only one “end” in Scripture (Jn 6:54n), for this “end,” which may well be postmillennial, does not transpire at the same time as some of the other “ends,” several of which are clearly premillennial (1 Co 1:8. Mt 24:13, 14). Furthermore, the single English word “end” is used to render two significantly different Greek words: here, it is telos (❅S#5056g, Mt +10:22), but in some passages it is suntelia (❅S#4930g, Mt +24:3). Da 12:4, 9, 13. Mt 10:22. 13:39, 40. 24:6, 13, 14. 1 P 4:7. when. Mt 26:29g. Lk ◐✓19:15. Re 18:9g. shall have delivered up. ƒ63A1. Figure of speech Ellipsis (Absolute: of the Nominative), whereby the subject must be supplied from the nature of the subject alone, or from what is elsewhere expressed, Ge +14:20. The nominative or subject of this verb is not Christ, but by a common scriptural idiom in which the verb is used without any personal nominative, the verb has reference to the purpose of God elsewhere expressed in His Word (see Peters, Theocratic Kingdom, vol. 2, Proposition 159, Obs. 3, p. 635). Compare for the grammatical, as opposed to rhetorical, discussion of this construction: Samuel G. Green, Handbook to the Grammar of the Greek New Testament, pp. 101 (sec. 101), 166, 167 (sec. 170, 171). W. H. Moulton, Grammar, vol. 1, p. 58, 74, 226, 236. Moulton, Idiom Book, pp. 27-29. Robertson, Grammar, pp. 802, 820. Turner, Grammar, vol. 3, pp. 291-293. the kingdom. Not his own kingdom, but those which he has subdued (Re 11:15), for the Messianic kingdom will never end (Da ✓7:14. Lk ✓1:32, 33). Note Paul’s intentional obscurity here to avoid endangering the persons addressed who lived in the potentially hostile political environment of the Roman Empire (see other instances of obscurity at the related notes on 2 Th 2:7 and He 12:27). Peters (Theocratic Kingdom, vol. 1, p. 260, Proposition 40, Observation 6, note; pp. 270, 271; pp. 626, 627) notes that Jesus, and the New Testament writers taken as a whole, manifest the same reserve in their teaching regarding the kingdom of God, depending upon the hearer’s or reader’s knowledge of the Old Testament covenants, promises, and prophecies for information as to its details, and for the same reasons. Two additional instances of intentional obscurity are the very discreet terminology Peter used in his message recorded at Ac 3:19-21, and the use of indirect citations of Old Testament prophecies by the Apostle John in the Revelation (see especially the references to Ps 2 and Da 7 in Re 11:15-19). These citations would serve, for his original intended audience, as a kind of triggering mechanism to remind his hearers of the related context and associated well known prophecies, references which would escape notice and not be understood should the book fall into hostile hands, ever ready to charge the Christians with political intrigue against the Roman authority (Jn 11:48. Ac 17:7). This feature may also account, in part, for John’s placing the prophecy of the new heaven and earth in an apparently postmillennial chronological position, when his readers, who would be most familiar with the other Bible predictions relating to this event, were certainly aware that every other mention of this event in prophecy places it in a premillennial chronological setting (see related note, 2 P 3:12n). That citations of the Old Testament were sometimes used as a “triggering mechanism” to remind the reader of their associated context seems quite evident when one considers the context of Matthew’s citation (Mt 2:18) of Jeremiah, for he cites Je 31:15, but if one considers verses 16 and 17, the relevance of the quotation is evident, for Jeremiah is predicting that the children will return to this very land in resurrection, a most appropriate consolation for those who lost children at the hand of Herod. The effectiveness of such a device becomes more probable when one considers carefully the extensive background knowledge of the Scriptures possessed by even the common people in Israel during New Testament times (T#1122, Jn +✓6:14). Ps 45:6. Is +*9:7. *40:9, 10. Da +*7:14, 27. Mt *11:27. *28:18. Lk 10:22. Jn 3:35. 13:3. 1 Ti 6:15. He +*1:8. Re +*11:15. 19:16. to God. Gr. the God and Father. Ps +*22:28. *146:10. Ro +15:6. Ep 5:20. Ja 1:27. all rule. Ro +*8:38. Ep 1:21. 3:10. 6:12. Col 1:16. 2:10, 15. Ti 3:1. He 2:8. all authority and power. Lk 4:36. 1 P 3:22. Re 17:13.`

[[Glossário do NTSK]]
