---
referencia: 1Co 10.2
alias:
  - 1Co 10:2
  - 1 C 10:2
  - 1 C 10.2
  - 1 Co 10:2
  - 1 Co 10.2
  - 1 Cor 10:2
  - 1 Cor 10.2
  - 1 Corinthians 10:2
  - 1 Corinthians 10.2
  - 1 Coríntios 10:2
  - 1 Coríntios 10.2
  - 1Cor 10:2
  - 1Cor 10.2
  - 1Corinthians 10:2
  - 1Corinthians 10.2
  - 1Coríntios 10:2
  - 1Coríntios 10.2
  - 1o Cor 10:2
  - 1o Cor 10.2
  - 1o Coríntios 10:2
  - 1o Coríntios 10.2
  - 1st Corinthians 10:2
  - 1st Corinthians 10.2
  - First Corinthians 10:2
  - First Corinthians 10.2
  - I Co 10:2
  - I Co 10.2
  - I Cor 10:2
  - I Cor 10.2
  - I Corinthians 10:2
  - I Corinthians 10.2
  - I Coríntios 10:2
  - I Coríntios 10.2
  - Primeiro Cor 10:2
  - Primeiro Cor 10.2
  - Primeiro Coríntios 10:2
  - Primeiro Coríntios 10.2

livro: 1 Coríntios
sigla: 1Co
indice_livro: 46
capitulo: 10
versiculo: 2
KJV: And were all baptized unto Moses in the cloud and in the sea; 
BKJ: e todos foram batizados em Moisés, na nuvem e no mar, 
testamento: Novo Testamento
canon_judaico: 
canon_cristao: Epístolas Paulinas
data_criacao: 2025-09-03
data_atualizacao: 
status: publicado
tags:
  - Bíblia
  - NovoTestamento
  - EpístolasPaulinas
  - 1Coríntios

---


[[Bíblia]] ➜ [[Novo Testamento]] ➜  [[Epístolas Paulinas]] ➜ [[1 Coríntios]] ➜ [[1Co 10]]
[[1Co 10.1|Voltar]] ❮ [[1Co 10.2]] ❯ [[1Co 10.3|Avançar]]

## 📜 **Texto do Versículo**

| Versão  | Texto                                                                                      |
| ------  | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| BKJ1611 | e todos foram batizados em Moisés, na nuvem e no mar,  |
| KJV     | And were all baptized unto Moses in the cloud and in the sea;  |

## 🔗 **Referências Cruzadas (NTSK)**

`baptized. Gr. baptizo, Mt +3:6. ƒ96A3, Lk +2:5. This, of course, is a metaphorical baptism; there is no possible reference to immersion here. In the historical account, the Israelites passed through the sea on dry ground; only the Egyptians were immersed. Neither were the Israelites immersed in the cloud; the cloud remained behind the Israelites to separate and protect them from the pursuing Egyptians. These considerations entirely sustain James W. Dale’s conclusion, “Whatever is capable of thoroughly changing the character, state, or condition of any object, is capable of baptizing that object; and by such change of character, state, or condition does, in fact, baptize it” (Classic Baptism, p. 354). Dale amplifies this conclusion thus: “Whatever act is capable of thoroughly changing the character, state, or condition, of any object, by placing it in a state of physical intusposition, is capable of baptizing that object; and whatever influence is capable of thoroughly changing the character, state, or condition, of any object, by pervading it and making it subject to its own characteristic, is capable of baptizing that object; and by such changes of character, state, or condition, these acts and influences do, in fact, baptize their objects” (Judaic Baptism, p. 57). In what sense is this historical event a baptism? There was no administrator of baptism; was there then self baptism? If so, bapto not baptizo is the proper word (Carson, p. 30). There was no modal act of dipping. The only act was marching. There was no momentary covering of the dipped object; it lasted from the evening until the morning watch. There was no faith in the candidates for this baptism: the Scripture shows the multitude rampant with unbelief. In this very remarkable baptism is exhibited “the most magnificent spectacle of infant baptism that the rolling ages have ever witnessed” (Dale, Judaic Baptism, p. 300). 1 Co 1:13-16. Ex 14:31. Jn 9:28, 29. He 3:2, 3. unto Moses. or, into Moses. Israel was baptized into Moses, and not unto Moses, to bring them thoroughly under his influence, subject to his leadership in his divine mission, attested to by the miracle. Dale concludes, “the baptism of Israel into Moses expresses their full subjection to his controlling influence” (Christic Baptism, p. 310). In this class of baptism, baptism has reference to the influence which results, “And the people believed the Lord and his servant Moses” (see Dale, Judaic Baptism, pp. 306-314). Ex ✓14:31. Dt 18:15. Mt 28:19, 20. Jn 5:46. Ga +*3:27. in the cloud. or, by the cloud. en, “in,” expresses agency, and is better rendered “by,” as Ne ✓9:12. Ps ✓77:20. 78:14, where the Greek Septuagint uses en, rendered “by” and “with” in connection with this very miracle. in the sea. or, by the sea. The Israelites were not “in the sea,” but the dry sea bed, yet here Paul again is speaking instrumentally, not locally, best rendered “by the sea,” expressing the agency required for the baptism into Moses. If taken at all in a local sense, “in the cloud and in the sea” must be transferred in its reference from the Israelites to the power of Jehovah, which certainly was by miracle in them. By means of this double miracle the Israelites were influenced to fully acknowledge the often doubted and questioned divine mission of Moses, justifying the declaration that they were now baptized into him (see Dale, Christic Baptism, pp. 295, 296). Similarly, our baptism into Christ signifies our submission to Him as Lord, as being made fully subject to Him (Ac +✓10:36. Ro ✓10:9).`

[[Glossário do NTSK]]
